Teeming with acts both heroic and reprehensible, John Ridley’s wrenchingly humane documentary, “Let It Fall: Los Angeles 1982-1992,” reveals the Los Angeles riots as the almost inevitable culmination of a decade of heightening racial tensions., To that end, this multiethnic oral history allows politicians and the police, victims and survivors who witnessed the events of April 29 and 30, 1992, to expose a relentless accretion of official decisions and public resentments. We’re almost 90 minutes in before the uprising begins, but not a second feels unnecessary: Rather, some sections are so powerfully elucidated by the movie’s commitment to context and nuance that even too-familiar tragedies — like the agonizing beatings of Rodney King and Reginald Denny — arrive freighted with fresh insight., "Let It Fall" takes a look at the years and events leading up to the city-wide violence that began April 29, 1992, when the verdict was announced in the Rodney King case., “It was truly a war like no other,” says Jung Hui Lee, a Korean-American shopkeeper whose 18-year-old son, Edward Jae Song Lee, was mistaken for a looter and shot while trying to protect another business. His death, like others in the film, is indicative of a chaos that defies a simple black-and-white explanation., Drawing from multiple visual sources, Mr. Ridley follows the rise of gang membership and drug use, and the troubling evolution of the policing tactic known as “pain compliance” (an escalating series of actions designed to subdue a suspect). Neither blame nor absolution entices him as, again and again (eased by Colin Rich’s masterly editing), he coaxes forth the perfect, shining moment that speaks volumes., “He was only 20,” one woman says, distractedly, of the boyfriend who died from a police chokehold, as if she were fully registering his youth for the first time. Similarly, a telling encounter with a biracial juror plays like a spotlight on the complexities of tribal loyalty. But Mr. Ridley (whose terrific anthology series, “American Crime,” is currently in its third season on ABC) saves his most devastating device for last, sideswiping us with the realization that someone who has already touched our hearts might also, at one time, have turned our stomachs.
The cinema innovator and iconoclast Jean-Luc Godard never actually said, “All you need to make a movie is a girl and a gun,” but it has become a well-known adage, anyway — because it’s true. “Free Fire,” directed by Ben Wheatley from a script he wrote with Amy Jump, applies a more-is-more ethos to the formula: The ingredients here include a best actress Academy Award winner, Brie Larson; dozens of firearms; and a slew of male characters of varying levels of smugness and idiocy to help out with the shooting. The film is a formal exercise in spectacle under constraint: An extended standoff in a contained space surprisingly full of hazards., The director Ben Wheatley narrates a sequence from the film., The story is set in the era of eight-track tapes and ultrawide lapels. Cillian Murphy plays an Irish gun buyer with a cause; Armie Hammer, Sharlto Copley and Babou Ceesay are among the idiosyncratic sleazebags doing the selling. The deal is going down in a grungy abandoned warehouse in Boston, with Ms. Larson’s character, Justine, acting as broker. Before things can conclude amicably, an unpleasant coincidence-among-lowlifes sets the gangs against each other. All hell breaks loose, ebbs, breaks loose again, and so on., Mr. Wheatley’s “High-Rise” was a highlight of 2016, and again he shows that he’s a technically virtuosic director whose humor has a bracingly nasty side. He’s also no dummy. “Free Fire” is an action movie finely tuned to even the most potentially vicious audiences’ tolerances. It is filled with mayhem, but avoids grisly violence — at least until the finale pulls out some gory, and not inapt, punch lines., Luxuriating in disreputability in all the right ways, the film also contains no shortage of profane verbal wit: From an impeccably delivered “Ugh, men,” from Ms. Larson, to a one-bit gunman’s complaint about hating a certain type of “freelance job” that he describes with an expletive.
A funny thing happened to the French director Bruno Dumont a few years back: He discovered whimsy, or at least something like it. Mr. Dumont made his feature debut in 1997, with the striking “The Life of Jesus,” which built on the unflinching confrontation of emotional extremes pioneered by the filmmaker Maurice Pialat. His subsequent works — including the harrowing “Twentynine Palms,” the enigmatic war film “Flanders” and the gloss on Bressonian themes “Hadewijch” — are serious, searing pictures, replete with content and imagery that even the most adventurous viewer could find hard to stomach., But his 2014 television mini-series, “Li’l Quinquin,” about an impish kid caught up in a grisly murder mystery, added an antic playfulness to the Dumont vocabulary. And his new feature, “Slack Bay,” widens that scope., “Slack Bay” is set in a tiny seaside community in northern France, sometime in the early 1900s. Here live two families. The “haves” are the wealthy Van Peteghems, whose patriarch, André (Fabrice Luchini), a simpering hunchback, presides (after a fashion) over an ominous stone manse on a hill overlooking the bay. The “have-nots” are the Bruforts, whose own patriarch is nicknamed the Eternal. They run a ferry service in which the Eternal and his oldest son, called Ma Loute (also the film’s French title), often hand-carry passengers over a marsh. Sometimes they use a boat. And on these trips they sometimes bludgeon their passengers to death, take the bodies to their humble home and eat them., Into this mix blunder a pair of black-suited, derby-wearing police officers who would look as at home in “The Adventures of Tintin” as they might in a Mack Sennett short. One is overweight, and makes a lot of noise if he so much as crooks an elbow in his tightfitting suit. He also falls and rolls around a lot. Mr. Dumont is defiantly not above body-shaming humor. He probably has some philosophical rationale for it., But wait. You may still be stuck on “and eat them.” Yes, the Bruforts are cannibals, which, among other things, puts a crimp in a possible romance between Ma Loute (Brandon Lavieville, jug-eared and bad-boy charming) and Billie (Raph, who resembles a teenage Natalie Portman), an androgynous cousin of the Van Peteghem girls, whose mother, Aude (a very hopped-up Juliette Binoche), is also a summer visitor., As this family enacts a Gallic variation of the Monty Python “Woody and Tinny Words” sketch, the human body parts in the Brufort hut grow more numerous. This is a spirited and often gorgeous film (Guillaume Deffontaines, the cinematographer, makes the eyes of even the most ostensibly unattractive characters supernaturally beautiful), but it’s not an easy one. As it turns out, modes of farce and fantasy enable Mr. Dumont to pull the rug out from under the viewer in a number of new and upsetting ways. Be prepared.
The title character in “The Happiest Day in the Life of Olli Maki” is a rabbity guy — nervous, jumpy and fast. He’s a boxer and always moving, as if he were constantly getting ready to take a swing or looking out for an opponent. A sweet, stealthy story about fighting the good fight in and out of the ring, the film opens with Olli (Jarkko Lahti) already in motion. He’s on a train and then in a car, listening to twangy rock ’n’ roll (the soundtrack gets your body moving, too) while driving to meet his girl, Raija (Oona Airola), a radiant beauty who has a heart-skipping way of slowing Olli down., Sports movies usually involve obvious winners and losers, but “The Happiest Day” — a largely true story set in Finland in 1962 and shot on glorious black-and-white film — is interested in other matters. Olli is about to have the biggest bout of his career against Davey Moore (John Bosco Jr.), an American and the reigning world champion. The fight has been partly coordinated by an ex-fighter, Elis (Eero Milonoff), an amusingly oily, small-time hustler who’s working every angle he can as fast as he can. Elis is peddling the match as a spectacle, a Finnish benchmark. “You don’t have to go to America to see a great show,” he promises reporters, an oath that Olli seems less certain about., Olli is humble, nearly to a fault, as perhaps befits a fighter known as the Baker of Kokkola, a moniker as attractively down-to-earth as this film. “The Happiest Day” centers on a boxer facing a personal milestone and training and sparring and sweating (and sweating) to get down his weight. But the director Juho Kuosmanen understands that what happens outside the ring defines a life, too, so he skips the usual triumphant moments and instead lingers over the big questions — the limits of ambition and, as the title suggests, the meaning of happiness — that might be glossed over elsewhere., A preview of the film., Mr. Kuosmanen, who wrote the script with Mikko Myllylahti, layers on scenes of everyday realism — two people skipping stones, a man on a lonely walk — that build an intimate, lived-in portrait. Shortly after “The Happiest Day” opens, Olli and Raija set off for Helsinki, where he’ll be training with Elis. It’s the first time that he will fight as a  featherweight, a marker that takes on significance as he struggles to make weight. He and Raija have other issues, having moved in with Elis, his wife and kids, a familial squall that (like the tots who pop up now and again) has a way of upstaging important adult matters. Life intrudes, as children and the film’s abruptly edited transitions underscore., “The Happiest Day in the Life of Olli Maki” deepens quietly. This is Mr. Kuosmanen’s first feature (he has directed a few shorts), and if he had any rookie jitters you wouldn’t know it. It’s a bit of a narrative slow-boil — the story arrives in pieces, in disconnected scenes and conversational fragments — but it grabs you right from the start. The most obvious reason is the dense, luxuriant black-and-white cinematography, which is very pleasurable in its own right. (I’d forgotten how much I missed seeing black-and-white in new movies.) Here, the absence of color works like a time machine, transporting you into the past, yet because it’s now so uncommon it also feels paradoxically fresh, not nostalgic., The Times critic Manohla Dargis reviews “The Happiest Day in the Life of Olli Maki.", Working with his cinematographer, J-P Passi, Mr. Kuosmanen turns the black-and-white from a novelty into a strength, using grain and shades of gray to set the mood and tone in smoke-filled rooms and natural landscapes. For the most part, the characters — Olli most of all — don’t express themselves readily or knowingly (they’re pre-therapy). So Mr. Kuosmanen sticks fairly close to them in order to trace those tender, telltale filigreed emotions that settle into faces when the words don’t or can’t come. It’s lovely miniaturist work that echoes that of the performers, notably that of Ms. Airola and Mr. Lahti, who lets you see Olli’s interior life emerge gradually, as pure physicality gives way to sensibility., “The Happiest Day in the Life of Olli Maki” may take its inspiration from the life of a real boxer, but you wouldn’t know it from the film, which doesn’t have any of the usual biographical footnoting. (If you see it, pay attention to the old couple at the end and then stay for the closing credits.) There isn’t much about the real Mr. Maki in English other than his 1962 fight with the real Davey Moore. Mr. Moore died the next year after sustaining injuries in a brutal fight, a tragedy Bob Dylan immortalized in the ballad “Who Killed Davey Moore?” I don’t know if a Finnish balladeer ever sang of Mr. Maki, but this film serves as a charming testament to him and to the grace of an ordinary life.
As the thriller “Unforgettable” wends its way toward its not very thrilling climactic scene, we are forced to ask: Why do people keep making essentially the same “crazy ex-” movie over and over again?, This one has two accomplished stars, Rosario Dawson and Katherine Heigl, and Ms. Dawson, especially, does creditable work, but it doesn’t matter because the format is so numbingly familiar. Ms. Heigl, looking carved out of ice, plays Tessa, who has not been coping well with her divorce from David (Geoff Stults). When he develops a serious relationship with Julia (Ms. Dawson), Tessa sets a diabolical plot in motion., A preview of the film., The setup may vary — sometimes it’s an unbalanced roommate, or a surrogate mother, or a sexy nanny who gets that homicidal look in the eye — but it’s the same three-cornered dynamic. Here, both the director (Denise Di Novi) and the writer (Christina Hodson) are women, yet that doesn’t translate into a reimagining of the tired formula. Tessa and David have a young daughter (Isabella Kai Rice) who becomes a pawn in the deadly game, and Julia is given a back story involving an abusive boyfriend, but the tale still plays out the same way these yarns always do., That’s dismaying, because although this is a female-centered movie, the women’s roles are not exactly empowering. The formula demands that one character be bonkers and that the other not be smart enough to realize how unhinged her adversary is until it’s too late. It’s woman in jeopardy meets woman on the verge, a reductive brand of thriller from another decade, freshened here only with the addition of a plot element involving Facebook., The Times critic Neil Genzliger reviews “Unforgettable”.
Here’s what sounds like one dud job: calculating bird populations in Antarctica. But here’s what that work has inspired: one swell documentary., “The Penguin Counters” follows a group of field biologists who travel to the frigid far South to estimate the animals’ numbers and to gauge the damage that climate change is causing them. The researchers are led by Ron Naveen, a scientist who has made trips to the area for decades., “Penguins are my passion!” Mr. Naveen says. “Do I live for this? Yeah, absolutely! It’s what I live and breathe and think and do all the time.” He’s contagiously cheery, and most of his sentences seem to end with an exclamation point or a sense of wonder. Even amid brutal conditions, he’s an intrepid and encouraging guide., Listening to Mr. Naveen, though, is secondary to watching the views. Almost every shot of wildlife, distant mountains and violent seas is magnificent. Yet Peter Getzels, Harriet Gordon and Erik Osterholm, who filmed the scenes (Mr. Getzels and Ms. Gordon also directed), don’t romanticize the region, delivering footage that’s a bit scary as well as awe-inspiring. Old photographs and a short digression into explorations by Ernest Shackleton and Frank Wild are wonderful., Despite some distressing speculation about our warming planet, “The Penguin Counters” stays hopeful throughout its running time of just over an hour. Much of that is attributable to Mr. Naveen, who remains upbeat, no matter the weather. After seeing that icy land, you’ll probably never want to take his job. But that’s O.K. He’s more than happy to keep it.
“Behind the White Glasses,” an effusive portrait of the Italian director Lina Wertmüller, the subject of a retrospective at the reopened Quad Cinema, wastes no time turning polemical. “In the whole history of the world, I think there have only been two great women directors, Leni Riefenstahl and Lina Wertmüller,” the critic John Simon says minutes in., Has Mr. Simon ever seen a movie by Lois Smith, Maya Deren, Ida Lupino, Agnès Varda, Vera Chytilova, Chantal Akerman, Claire Denis, Catherine Breillat, Jane Campion, Kelly Reichardt, Lucrecia Martel or Kathryn Bigelow? What kind of documentary positions that statement as authoritative in the 21st century?, A documentary stuck in a particular moment, perhaps — when Mr. Simon, one of Ms. Wertmüller’s staunchest champions, could proclaim her the most important director since Ingmar Bergman. Whether that sentiment has endured is dubious, and the movie treats Ms. Wertmüller’s poorly received post-1970s career with kid gloves., The first woman nominated for an Oscar for best director, for “Seven Beauties” (1975), Ms. Wertmüller remains a divisive figure. Her fans saw her as an essential filmmaker of the 1970s. Her detractors pilloried her movies as sexist, politically incoherent and grotesque. Among her collaborators, Giancarlo Giannini fondly remembers their many films together. Martin Scorsese posits “Swept Away” (1974) as an essential conversation piece in its decade., At its most enjoyable, Valerio Ruiz’s rambling profile cedes the floor to Ms. Wertmüller, who recalls her creative partnership with her husband, the production designer Enrico Job, and her cultural importance in representing Italy’s south onscreen. Turning 89 this year, she is still a vivacious storyteller whose trademark eyeglasses — she bought 5,000 pairs from the factory, she says — make her pop against even the dullest backgrounds.
Weighed down by the worthiness of its intentions, “The Promise” is a big, barren wartime romance that approaches the Armenian genocide with too much calculation and not nearly enough heat. It can happen all too easily. An otherwise highly competent director (in this case, Terry George) succumbs to the lure of addressing a real-life atrocity (here, the still-contested slaughter of more than a million peaceful Armenians by the Ottoman Empire during World War I). Somewhere along the way, though, the need to do justice to the slain and call out the perpetrators becomes a pillow that smothers every spark of originality. Even actors with the heft of Oscar Isaac and Christian Bale — playing an Armenian apothecary named Mikael and an American war reporter named Chris — appear muffled and indistinct., A preview of the film., This dimming extends to an excruciatingly corny plot that has both characters vie for the twinkling affections of Ana (Charlotte Le Bon), a Paris-educated, terminally cute tutor. But first Mikael must finagle a dowry to finance medical school in Constantinople, so he promises to marry Maral (Angela Sarafyan), a lovely innocent from his village. Once in the grip of the city and Ana’s charms, however, Mikael is lost; the combined demands of a soggy love triangle and the approach of war soon banish all thoughts of marriage — to Maral, at least., Mikael, then, is not particularly sympathetic, and Chris is a humorless newshound; so when the jackboots tramp and the killing begins, their fates are of less concern than they should be. And while Mikael endures the horrors of an Ottoman work camp, and Chris and Ana are busily saving orphans at a Protestant mission, their director — who was infinitely more adept with his other genocide movie, “Hotel Rwanda” — appears oblivious to the story’s inadequacies. Aspiring to the sweep of epics like “Doctor Zhivago” and “Reds,” Mr. George achieves neither the romantic delirium of the first nor the sheer swaggering gumption of the second., The Times critic Jeannette Catsoulis reviews “The Promise.", Money does not seem to have been the problem: The film reportedly cost almost $100 million, and some of it is even on the screen. Yet we never forget for one second that we’re watching actors in fancy dress; behind the curtain of cattle cars and starving workers, above the noise of the explosions, we can hear the moviemaking machinery clank and whir., In 2002, the Canadian-Armenian director Atom Egoyan took a more modest yet ultimately more potent path to the genocide with his underseen “Ararat.” Though not entirely successful, that film — which directly addressed the cinematic challenge of representing history — profited from sharply perceptive writing and a studious avoidance of melodrama. With even one of these attributes, “The Promise” might have had a chance.
You’ll want to see “Tomorrow” if you’re fuming over President Trump’s proposed slashing of the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget, his vow to exit the Paris climate accord or the fact that there’s a general perception (not just among politicians) that the effects of climate change are far-off. This French documentary convincingly explains why those views are gravely misguided, but its real triumph is its pervasive feeling of hope., A preview of the film., It’s refreshing to see concrete solutions at work, many of them at the grass-roots level. And the optimism of those countering ineffective politicians and big business is infectious. The filmmakers — the French actress Mélanie Laurent and the civic activist Cyril Dion — interview their subjects during an intercontinental expedition that takes them to Detroit and Todmorden, England, where urban gardening initiatives flourish; San Francisco, which has an enviable recycling and composting program; Normandy, France, where intercropping ensures that “each plant plays a role in the ecosystem”; a village near Chennai, India, whose decentralized democracy reflects the residents’ priorities; Copenhagen, with its renewable energy model and biking culture; and many points in between., At times, it feels as if the strikingly composed “Tomorrow” — fast-paced and divided into chapters focusing on food, energy, the economy, democracy and education — would have better served viewers as a multi-episode documentary series, with each theme getting its own segment. Yet the editing team helps evoke an overall sense of lighthearted adventure; the narration is punchy and personal; the pop score (mostly by Fredricka Stahl) is catchy; and the hopscotching visuals are as vibrant as the subjects profiled., The overriding message? It takes a community to make change. To paraphrase the Leonard Cohen song “Everybody Knows,” the dice may be loaded, but good guys can win, especially when they band together.
Much of Lydia Tenaglia’s diverting documentary, “Jeremiah Tower: The Last Magnificent,” about one of America’s first celebrity chef-restaurateurs, is framed as a battle against vulgarity. Mr. Tower, an epicure raised as a lonely child amid chilly affluence, attended Harvard around the late 1960s before finding his calling. On camera, he remembers how, when student protesters invited him to “become a revolutionary,” he replied, “I’m too busy cooking.” He adds: “Drink Champagne and eat smoked salmon. That was my revolution.”, A preview of the film., After college, in 1972, Mr. Tower alighted at Alice Waters’s pioneering Berkeley, Calif., restaurant, Chez Panisse. Together, he and Ms. Waters gave birth to the so-called California Cuisine, based on local ingredients and championed by the likes of James Beard. After a falling-out with Ms. Waters, Mr. Tower founded the restaurant Stars, a magnet for San Francisco’s political and show-business glitterati, and was bestowed a Dewars endorsement deal. But Stars, overextended (it had branches elsewhere in Northern California and overseas), was damaged and ultimately undone by an earthquake in 1989. After years in retreat, Mr. Tower resurfaced in 2014 to resuscitate the ailing Tavern on the Green in Manhattan. Despite his efforts, he was out a year later., Ms. Tenaglia’s camera lends a polished veneer as food authorities like Ruth Reichl, Mario Batali, Wolfgang Puck and Martha Stewart attest to Mr. Tower’s gifts, with Anthony Bourdain, one of the film’s producers, especially forceful. Throughout, the solitary Mr. Tower maintains an unflappable refinement, dedicated, a college friend says, to “looking for some utopian possibility of living, because that’s what kept the darkness away.”
Because New York City is so ecumenically photogenic, I had high hopes for this documentary about two visionaries with diametrically opposed views of how the city and its residents best live. “Citizen Jane: Battle for the City,” directed by Matt Tyrnauer, which chronicles the author and activist Jane Jacobs’s opposition to several ambitious, potentially ruinous Robert Moses projects, is only intermittently stimulating., The film does not cite the many books that have been written about Moses and Jacobs, but it does quote extensively from Jacobs’s own groundbreaking 1961 volume, “The Death and Life of Great American Cities.” If you’ve read Robert Caro’s Moses biography, “The Power Broker,” and Anthony Flint’s account of Jacobs’s activism, “Wrestling With Moses,” you know many of the stories eventually retold here. (Mr. Flint is one of the talking heads; Mr. Caro is not.) For the movie’s first half-hour, though, contemporary interviewees repeatedly evoke the views of Moses and Le Corbusier, advocates of a sterile modernism, and contrast them with Jacobs’s advocacy of a more organic mode of urban growth. A long time goes by before any specific project is explored., A preview of the film., The movie lights up whenever it shows archival footage of its antagonists: Jacobs is sensible, warm and witty; Moses is cocksure, occasionally truculent, openly contemptuous of the people his big ideas are likely to displace. Defending a project that would have run Fifth Avenue through Washington Square Park, he sneers at the “cabarets and speakeasies” he plans to raze. Also interesting (and too brief) is a section on the international legacy of Moses: “China today is Moses on steroids,” the political economist Saskia Sassen notes. A scary thought.
“Born in China,” another animals-are-just-like-people film from the Disneynature brand, has two of the natural world’s more adorable creatures in it, pandas and kitties. But some scraggly looking antelopes provide the most impressive imagery in a film that otherwise doesn’t stand out photographically., The movie takes us all over China to see four species in their natural habitats, some of which are exceedingly remote. There are kitties — oh, all right; they’re snow leopards, a mother and two cubs. There’s a panda and her cub. There’s a young snub-nosed monkey that, at least in the irksome narrative imposed here, is feeling neglected because of the arrival of a baby sister., A preview of the film., A Tibetan antelope, or chiru, doesn’t get quite the screen time of these others — and isn’t even mentioned in some of the advance publicity for the movie — but footage of a long migration by the females of a herd to a calving ground and the arrival of a calf is among the most remarkable in the movie. Maybe that’s just because pandas and even the elusive snow leopard have become overexposed with the abundance of nature documentaries these days; this film looks pretty much like any of the best material to be found on the National Geographic Channel, PBS’s “Nature” and elsewhere. In any case, the narrative, read by John Krasinski, is kid-friendly in a cloying sort of way, and unpleasant realities like China’s pollution are not mentioned. So as an introduction for children to exotic creatures in picturesque landscapes, the movie is harmless enough.
In “The Lost City of Z,” a lush, melancholic story of discovery and mystery, a mesmerizing Charlie Hunnam plays a British adventurer in the Amazon who is consumed by “all the glories of exploration,” as Joseph Conrad once wrote of a different journey. Enveloped by the forest, the explorer and his crew face snakes, piranhas, insects and that most terrifying of threats: other people, who at times bombard the strangers with arrows. Undaunted, he perseveres, venturing more deeply into a world that first becomes a passion and then something of a private hallucination. It’s 1906, and while wonders like moving pictures are rapidly shrinking the world, the dream of unknown lands endures., That dream isn’t only about the Amazon in “The Lost City of Z” but also about the movies and their ability to transport us to astonishing new worlds. For us, the Age of Discovery is long gone and, for the most part, so are old-fashioned historical epics, other than the occasional Chinese extravaganza or one of those international waxworks with clashing accents. Hollywood used to churn these out regularly, but they’ve faded, casualties of shifting industry logic, audience taste, cultural norms and other pressures. The romance of adventure has largely shifted from history to fantasy fiction, an easier, less contested playground for conquering white heroes., In “The Lost City of Z,” the writer-director James Gray has set out to make a film in the colonial era that suggests the likes of David Lean’s “Lawrence of Arabia,” but through a sensitive, contemporary lens. It’s one that starts from the premise that while white men have long been the keepers of the historical record, they didn’t make the past single-handedly. The story that Mr. Gray has chosen seems an unlikely candidate for such revisionism because it turns on Lieut. Col. Percy Harrison Fawcett, who came to believe in the existence of a lost Amazonian civilization. He called it the lost city of Z; others called it El Dorado, a European illusion that proved catastrophic for the New World., The movie opens shortly before Fawcett is approached by the Royal Geographical Society to map uncharted territory in Bolivia. A career soldier and son of a disgraced aristocrat, Fawcett is anxious to change his fortunes and increase his social standing. Leaving behind, rather too easily, his loving wife, Nina (Sienna Miller, wonderful), and their young son (later played by Tom Holland), he sets off and is soon struggling through the Amazon with a small crew that includes an aide-de-camp, Henry Costin (an excellent Robert Pattinson, shaggy and almost unrecognizable). Deep in a jungle, where each wonder is matched by terror, Fawcett is ravaged — and then transformed — by his discoveries of both a new world and another self., Mr. Gray opens this world gloriously. As a director, he has an old-fashioned belief in cinematic beauty, in the charm and necessity of the perfectly lighted and framed face, the hauntingly darkened room, the grittily coarsened street. He’s a sensualist, and in “The Lost City of Z” he turns the Amazon into a ravishment for the senses. (The cinematographer, Darius Khondji, who goes dark brilliantly, shot Mr. Gray’s last film, “The Immigrant.”) As Fawcett presses on, walking and sailing through dense shadow, streaming light and canopies of variegated green, the natural world comes fantastically alive with strange animal cries, stirring trees, roiling fog and frighteningly violent eddies., Advertisement, In time, native peoples emerge from those trees, by turns watchful, threatening and welcoming. Much as he does throughout his Amazonian travels, Fawcett is enlivened by his encounters with the Indians. He’s a natural, somewhat surprisingly peaceful ambassador given his background and historical moment (even if his restraint also nicely suits Mr. Hunnam’s slow-burning charisma). When his expedition comes under siege at one point, he orders his men not to fire and instead waves a kerchief while calling out “Amigo!” It’s a stratagem, but Fawcett’s curiosity is boundless and he sees accomplishment and complexity in this world, which sharply goes against bigoted orthodoxies back home., Advertisement, Mr. Gray, working from David Grann’s 2009 book, “The Lost City of Z,” glosses over Fawcett’s more noxious beliefs. Mr. Grann, for one, writes that Fawcett “escaped virtually every kind of pathology in the jungle, but he could not rid himself of the pernicious disease of race.” It’s no surprise that the real Fawcett was as fascinatingly contradictory as you might expect of a Victorian-born British explorer. Mr. Gray doesn’t soften all of these uncomfortable edges — there is arrogance and tinges of cruelty in this portrait — but he’s far more interested in what seems to have distinguished Fawcett, namely his passionate belief that Amazonian Indians were not the primitives the West insisted they were., That passion sends Fawcett back to the Amazon several more times over the years, eventually becoming a kind of steadily devouring fever. He’s hailed as a hero after he returns from his first trip, but by the time he’s home he has a new child, whose birth he missed. This sets the template for his life, as Fawcett increasingly gives himself over to the Amazon and neglects his family, a familiar divide that Mr. Gray turns into the story’s axis point. In most movies of this type, the great man kisses the little woman goodbye and sets off. Here, partly because Fawcett repeatedly returns home, Nina emerges as a substantial narrative force and not only a reminder of what he’s willing to sacrifice., Fawcett finds ecstasy in and out of the Amazon, as does Mr. Gray, who fills the screen with intimate reveries and overwhelming spectacle, including a harrowing interlude during World War I. Until now, Mr. Gray has tended to work on a somewhat modest scale, often with art films that play with genre. Here, he effortlessly expands his reach as he moves across time and continents and in the process turns the past into a singular life. There’s much to love in this film, but what lingers are those lapidary details that often go missing in stories about great men, as if they had built the world alone and no child had ever raced down a road waving goodbye as a father disappeared into history.
New England in the mid-19th century was a literary hothouse, overgrown with wild and exotic talents. That Emily Dickinson was among the most dazzling of these is not disputable, but to say that she was obscure in her own time would exaggerate her celebrity. A handful of her poems appeared in print while she was alive (she died in 1886, at 55), but she preferred private rituals of publication, carefully writing out her verses and sewing them into booklets., Though she had no interest in fame, Dickinson was anything but an amateur scribbler, approaching her craft with unstinting discipline and tackling mighty themes of death, time and eternity. She remains a paradoxical writer: vividly present on the page but at the same time persistently elusive. The more familiar you are with her work, the stranger she becomes., An admirer can be forgiven for approaching “A Quiet Passion,” Terence Davies’s new movie about Dickinson’s life, with trepidation. The literalness of film and the creaky conventions of the biopic threaten to dissolve that strangeness, to domesticate genius into likable quirkiness. But Mr. Davies, whose work often blends public history and private memory, possesses a poetic sensibility perfectly suited to his subject and a deep, idiosyncratic intuition about what might have made her tick., A preview of the film., To Dickinson — played in the long afternoon of her adult life by Cynthia Nixon — the enemy of poetry is obviousness. (It is a vice she finds particularly obnoxious in the work of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, the reigning poet of the age.) “A Quiet Passion” refuses the obvious at every turn. The romantically disappointed recluse of “The Belle of Amherst,” William Luce’s sturdy, sentimental play, has been replaced by a prickly, funny, freethinking intellectual, whose life is less a chronicle of withdrawal from the world than a series of explosive engagements with the universe. The passion is not so quiet, really. Dickinson muses and ponders, yes, but she also seethes, scolds, teases and bursts out laughing., Advertisement, Solitude is part of Dickinson’s birthright — the taste for it links her to Henry David Thoreau, another odd duck plying the waters of Massachusetts — but so are social and familial ties. The first time we see young Emily (played by Emma Bell) she is about to be kicked out of Mount Holyoke College, branded a “no-hoper” for her heterodox religious views. The description is wrong, of course. (“Hope is the thing with feathers,” she would write.) Her skepticism about God was more personal than metaphysical. She didn’t doubt his existence so much as question his intentions., Advertisement, In tracing the flowering of her vocation, Mr. Davies pays scrupulous attention to the milieu that fed it. Her formal education complete, Dickinson returns to Amherst to live with her parents (Keith Carradine and Joanna Bacon); her brother, Austin (Duncan Duff); and her sister, Vinnie (Jennifer Ehle). On the way, there is a trip to a concert with an uptight aunt who is disgusted by the spectacle of a woman singing and disdainful of music in general. What about hymns?, her niece asks. “Hymns are not music.”, But the Protestant hymnal was the metrical trellis on which Dickinson wreathed blossoms and thorns of musical invention. “A Quiet Passion” suggests that the mixture of austerity and extravagance in her verse was shaped partly by an environment in which religious severity coexisted with aesthetic and intellectual experimentation. (That aunt may have disapproved of the performance, but she still went.), This is a visually gorgeous film — full of sunlight and flowers, symmetry and ornament — that also feels refreshingly plain. The smooth, almost lyrical movement of the camera conveys lightness and gravity, much in the way that some of Dickinson’s poems do. Like her voice, it seems to have been set loose in time, to rush forward or to linger as the meaning and the meter require, to turn time itself into a series of riddles. The movie lasts for two hours, or 37 years, or the difference between now and forever, or the span of an idea., It is dominated by a single voice: Ms. Nixon’s, reciting stanzas instead of voice-over narration and cracking impish, sometimes impious jokes with the marvelous Ms. Ehle. A novel of family life writes itself between the lines, full of memorable characters and dramatic scenes. Parents grow old and die. Austin marries and then has an affair, a transgression that enrages Emily. She and Vinnie seem to exist in precise, kinetic counterpoint, like the left and right hands of a piano étude., Not everything is harmony. If one of the film’s threads is the existential conundrum that most directly informs Dickinson’s poetry — what it is like to live from moment to moment with the knowledge of eternity — another is the dialectic of freedom and authority that defined her life. Ms. Nixon’s Dickinson is a natural feminist, but she also naturally submits, as her siblings do, to their father’s will. When she wants to write late at night, she asks his permission, noting later that no husband would have granted it. She is submissive and rebellious in ways that defy easy summary. Like the other great American poet of her century, Walt Whitman, she contradicts herself., And though “A Quiet Passion” is small — modest in scope, inward rather than expansive, precise in word and gesture — it contains multitudes. It opens a window into an era whose political and moral legacies are still with us, and illuminates, with a practiced portraitist’s sureness of touch, the mind of someone who lived completely in her time, knowing all the while that she would eventually escape it.
The full, spoilerish title of Joseph Cedar’s new movie — “Norman: The Moderate Rise and Tragic Fall of a New York Fixer” — is more or less literally accurate, though it might be argued that “fixer” is a bit euphemistic, if not downright fantastical. In his own mind, Norman Oppenheimer, a well-dressed, well-spoken Manhattanite played with feeling and mischief by Richard Gere, is what’s known in Yiddish as a macher. He travels the circuits of money and influence, always just a few capillaries removed from the beating heart of power. His mental Rolodex swells with the names of the good and the great, every one of them “a very close friend.” He’d be happy to introduce you., His alleged friends — financiers, captains of industry, political big shots in Washington and Tel Aviv — might reckon things differently. A rising Israeli politician named Micha Eshel (Lior Ashkenazi) describes Norman to an aide as “a warm Jew.” It’s the nicest thing anyone can say. The aide, an actual fixer named Duby (Yehuda Almagor), has other ideas. In his eyes Norman is, at best, a minor annoyance; at worst, a threat to his patron’s career., A preview of the film., It’s no accident that some of Duby’s words about Norman — “scheming” and “bloodsucking,” in particular — evoke the historical language of anti-Semitism. Mr. Cedar, a New York-born Israeli filmmaker, has a sharp eye for intra-Jewish conflict, for the narcissism of large and small differences that can cause the unity of God’s chosen people to splinter like matzo. His previous film, the sublime academic comedy “Footnote,” mined father-son rivalry and scholarly antagonism for biblical pathos and borscht belt humor. “Norman” traces fault lines, more cultural and temperamental than ideological or religious, between the members of the diaspora (or at least the New York wing of it) and their cousins in the Promised Land., One of Mr. Cedar’s slyest conceptual jokes — and one of his boldest provocations at a moment of controversy about race and ethnicity in movie casting — is to place non-Jewish actors in most of the major American Jewish roles. (The Israelis are mostly Israeli, with the exception of Charlotte Gainsbourg, an ethereal embodiment of ethical seriousness and geographical nomadism.) In addition to Mr. Gere (who has never been better), there is Michael Sheen as Norman’s nephew. Steve Buscemi plays a rabbi. It would be a pleasure to write that sentence even if the performance it designates were not a marvel of wit and off-kilter humanity., Which pretty much describes “Norman” itself. It’s only after the plot has unfolded, with antic elegance and brazen unpredictability, that the risks involved become apparent. The dangers are everywhere: overly broad humor; obnoxiously shticky performances; sentimental tribalism; easy moral point-scoring. None materialize. It’s startling, given how much farce is on display — in the rise-and-fall structure of the narrative; in the madcap scenes of narrowly missed (or fully achieved) catastrophe; in the play of mistaken and forged identities — how much genuine feeling also comes through., Advertisement, It’s less that Mr. Cedar blends realism with absurdity than that he refuses to acknowledge any distinction between them. Norman, who strides through Midtown in a tweed cap and a camel coat, connected to the world through the earbuds of his iPhone, is an utterly plausible denizen of a city on the move. He is also a nearly mythical figure, a creature sprung from the annals of Jewish literature. You will encounter his ilk — losers, strivers, hucksters and dreamers — in the novels of Saul Bellow and the stories of Franz Kafka and Isaac Bashevis Singer. Also in the films of Mel Brooks and the Coen Brothers. At one point, Norman meets his own double, in the shambolic person of Hank Azaria., The Times critic A.O. Scott reviews “Norman.", Strictly speaking, Norman is a con artist, a spinner of exaggerations, half-truths and outright lies. This may be the source of Micha’s affection for him: This future prime minister can produce his share of seductive rhetorical vapor, and the men also share an evident and endearing insecurity. They want to be liked, to matter not just in public affairs but to the people around them, too., And there is something almost selfless in Norman’s hustle. He doesn’t want wealth or power as much as he longs for proximity to them, for entree into a world where important things happen. He calls himself a businessman or a consultant, but he is really running a kind of social pyramid scheme, promising extravagant returns on small investments of kindness and courtesy., Advertisement, He almost succeeds. Or maybe — to give away as little as I can — he does succeed. Only at the very end, with thrilling subtlety and impressive clarity, does a fable blossom from the satirical earth. To put it another way: This is a rare Jewish joke in which the punch line lives up to the delivery.
Redolent of damp wool and dour personalities, “Tommy’s Honour” wants to convince us that watching two men bicker and bang balls into tiny holes for the better part of two hours is the height of entertainment., Not that I wasn’t open to persuasion. For one thing, this staid biopic was prettily filmed in my beloved Scotland and directed by Jason Connery (the son of Sean Connery). And for another, it stars the great Peter Mullan, who broke my heart almost 20 years ago in “My Name Is Joe” and has had a place in there ever since. Here, he plays the 19th-century golf pioneer Tom Morris, four-time winner of what’s now known as the British Open and master caddy and greenskeeper to the toffs at the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews., For much of the movie, Tom will butt heads with his willful son, Tommy (Jack Lowden), whose golfing talent soon outpaces his father’s and whose aversion to forelock-tugging angers the aristocrats who sponsor their tournaments — and pocket most of the winnings., “Your station in life was set before you were born,” admonishes the club captain (a wily Sam Neill). But whether handling class conflict, family feuds or Tommy’s romance with a scandal-stamped scullery maid (Ophelia Lovibond), the screenplay (adapted from Kevin Cook’s 2007 book of the same name) draws everything out like flavorless taffy. The performances are desultory, the musical score bullying and the drama — aside from the game-changing placement of inconvenient shrubbery — as predictable as Tom senior’s steadily sprouting beard.
Hot on the heels of “The Death of Louis XIV” comes another candidate for Most Accurately Titled Film of 2017. Tenderhearted readers, fear not; this is neither a documentary nor a live-action depiction. “My Entire High School Sinking Into the Sea,” written and directed by Dash Shaw, is an eccentric and lively animated fantasy., A preview of the film., “High School” opens as many high school movies do, with a bus ride. During this one, the dorky hero, Dash (yes, this is one of those films in which the creator is also its vexed but lovable lead character), chats with his best buddy, Assaf (voiced by Reggie Watts), about their work for the school paper, whose editor, Verti (Maya Rudolph), will come between the two. But teenage angst and jealousy are soon to take a back seat to survival after an earthquake pitches the cliffside high school into, yup, the sea. Dash soon finds himself joining forces with the popular girl and a grizzled but resourceful lunch lady to avoid not just sharks but suddenly deadly cliques., The movie’s flat animation style — Jane Samborski is the lead animator — and purposefully crude character depictions are initially deceptive. (Its personages look as if they’ve been drawn with a Sharpie, in a style reminiscent of Charles M. Schulz and Gary Panter.) As the picture continues, its brightly colored visuals grow ever more psychedelic and phantasmagoric. This makes the mode of narrative and humor — which I’ll call strained, half-curdled, self-regarding millennial whimsy — go down a little easier. The voice work, from a cast that also includes Jason Schwartzman and Lena Dunham, is very good, though not unexpected.
At best ambiguous and at worst unfathomable, “Mimosas,” the sophomore feature from the Spanish director Oliver Laxe, merges harsh reality and offbeat mysticism into a reflection on the tug between our higher powers and baser instincts., A preview of the film., Don’t take my word for it, though: Time itself is unreliable in this sometimes beautiful, always cryptic tale. Set in the Atlas Mountains of Morocco, the story follows a small caravan of nomads transporting a dying sheikh to his final resting place in the legendary golden city of Sijilmasa. But when the sheikh dies and two roguish members of the entourage want to bail on their hazardous mission, up pops Shakib (a rivetingly weird Shakib Ben Omar) — armed with a quiverful of faith-based harangues — to urge them to continue., We have seen Shakib earlier, in a more modern setting, preaching inexpertly to a crowd of mocking cabdrivers who treat him as some kind of holy fool. Is he a guardian angel or the Devil’s helper, leading the men to their doom?, Emphasizing the puniness of men’s desires against the majesty of the mountains, the cinematographer, Mauro Herce, seems to argue that the question is irrelevant. Flying high and wide, he forges belief and fear into a bond with a landscape that doesn’t care whose wishes prevail. The naturalistic sound design agrees, sifting scrabbling stones and rushing water into the thrumming silence of snow and sand. The sum is a movie that panders not at all to Western sensibilities, giving few pointers on a theme beyond the fortifying power of faith. For some viewers, that will be plenty.
“I think he’s one of the greatest artists that we have today — but he could also be the worst,” a collector says in “Maurizio Cattelan: Be Right Back.” It’s one of several bits of hyperbole in a documentary that works best when it stops overanalyzing its subject and instead focuses on his mischievous art., For more than 20 years Mr. Cattelan has garnered praise and scorn for his works, like a sculpture of Pope John Paul II struck by a meteorite; a functioning 18-karat-gold toilet; and a statue of a praying Adolf Hitler., A preview of the film., When Maura Axelrod, the film’s director, examines those and recalls Mr. Cattelan’s pranks (including his use of doppelgängers, and a time when he broke into a gallery, stole objects and exhibited them as his own), the result is uproarious and thought-provoking. It’s hard not to grin at his huge sculpture, placed outside a stock exchange, of a raised middle finger, or to be awed by his 2011 retrospective, which hung from a truss atop the Guggenheim’s rotunda., When the experts arrive, the fun stalls. There’s blather about artists as brands, and attempts to study Mr. Cattelan’s past. Opposing voices or opinions from museumgoers are scarce, while professional assessments are neither novel enough to challenge the art enthusiast nor clear enough to engage the newcomer., Still, the art is the star and Ms. Axelrod features plenty of it. She also outlines a knowing path through Mr. Cattelan’s career, leaving just enough room to have you wondering if the artist is more of a con man than a genius. On that, make your own decision. No expert is needed.
“Little Boxes,” a mildly comic story about a biracial family that relocates to an exceedingly white town, feels a bit out of phase, but it’s delicately observed and does a nice job of staying within itself. It avoids the big confrontation or grand statement; doing so allows it to be an effective, if somewhat uneventful, study of the Brooklyn bubble effect., A preview of the film., Gina (Melanie Lynskey), who is white, and Mack (Nelsan Ellis), who is black, move from trendy and comfortably diverse Brooklyn so that she can take a new job in a small town in Washington State. Their son, Clark (Armani Jackson), is getting ready to start sixth grade., Their new community has apparently never seen such a family, but the reaction of the locals isn’t hostility, it’s awkwardness. Everyone tries too hard, and no one tries harder than two girls (Miranda McKeon and Oona Laurence) who befriend Clark. They’re eager to fit him into their idea of what a black child should be., Rob Meyer, directing a script by Annie J. Howell, could easily have made this a movie about those reactions, which seem a little last century; the list of towns where a biracial couple is a novelty is fairly short at this point. Instead, he smartly stays focused on Gina, Mack and Clark, who in different ways are thrown out of their comfort zones by the reception they receive. Countless movies have examined what happens when a country mouse goes to the city; this one shows that leaving a gentrified urban oasis for a small-town world can be just as jolting.
"The Happiest Day in the Life of Olli Maki" is a lovely piece of work, a sweet, warmly observed tale overlaid with just the right amount of Scandinavian melancholy, a combination that perfectly suits its quietly engaging protagonist., Set in 1962 and inspired by a crucial moment in the life of a real-life Finnish boxer, "Olli Mäki" works wonders with a story that only sounds straight-ahead. Coming out of nowhere, this debut feature by Juho Kuosmanen won the Un Certain Regard prize at Cannes last year with its cinéma vérité-style storytelling and off-center sensibility., In love with film, the culture of Finland, even love itself, "Olli Maki" benefits from some gorgeous black-and-white cinematography from director of photography Jani-Petteri Passi. Shot on 16mm Tri-X stock that existed in such small amounts that Kodak had to specially produce more, "Olli Mäki" has a crisp yet evocative look filled with so many memorable images that it makes you wish black-and-white was more alive and well as a visual choice., The heart of a project like this has to be natural acting from its key players, and "Olli Mäki" is so effective in this regard that you soon forget you are not watching real people going about their lives., The title character, convincingly played both in and out of the ring by Jarkko Lahti, is introduced taking a long trip to his rural home town to see Raija Janka, a young woman he's recently met., Beautifully played by Oona Airola in her feature debut, Raija is a young woman with an intoxicating smile and a clear sense of herself. Their day together takes some delightful and unexpected turns — in a visually stunning shot, they travel to a wedding with Raija perched on the front of Olli's bicycle — but their growing feeling for each other trumps all, so much so that when Olli goes to Helsinki, Raiji goes along with him., Though comments about an upcoming bout and questions about Olli's having to drop some pounds to qualify as a featherweight amusingly surface at the wedding, it's only when he is met by his manager, Elis Ask (veteran Finnish actor Eero Milonoff), in Finland's capital that Olli's situation becomes clear., For this modest man, more at ease with children than adults and someone who literally wouldn't hurt a fly, is just two weeks away from the biggest fight of his career, a title fight with accomplished American fighter Davey Moore, the world champion and later the subject of Bob Dylan’s song “Who Killed Davey Moore.”, Ambitious manager Elis, himself an ex-fighter who has jumped through hoops to bring this fight to Helsinki, understandably wants Olli to focus on his preparations and on losing the pounds he needs to make weight. Which would seem perfectly logical, except that Olli has fallen in love., Under the best of circumstances Olli, who would rather fly a kite by himself than mingle with the rich and famous, would not be up for the rounds of publicity and meetings with wealthy sponsors that the title fight entails., But with Raija at least initially close by, Olli's attention is split between what he knows he should be doing to succeed at a craft he loves and has been working at his entire life and what his heart tells him to do., This dilemma is obviously not an original one, but the treatment it’s given in "Olli Maki" makes it seem like it is.  The classic melancholy that haunts Olli as the nature of his conflict begins to close in on him ensures that things never get anywhere near overdone., Most effective of all is the way director Kuosmanen, who co-wrote with Mikko Myllylahti, has created a film that is alive to the pleasures and difficulties of life in a way that constantly surprises us., Speaking of the unexpected, keep your eye out for an old couple who amble through a scene near this film's end. Yes, it is the real Olli and Raija, walking off the screen and into our hearts.
More than once in “Karl Marx City,” a shrewd personal inquiry into the mass psychology of fear and oppression, documentary filmmaker Petra Epperlein can be seen walking the streets of the former German Democratic Republic, carrying a large microphone. She is recording — as is her cinematographer, co-director and husband, Michael Tucker — but unlike the thousands of civilian informants once employed by the East German Ministry for State Security (a.k.a. the Stasi), she keeps her equipment out in the open, making no secret of her activities., That’s an important distinction in a film that ingeniously subverts the weaponry of Cold War-era surveillance, employing the tools of the Stasi’s intelligence-gathering operation toward a far more principled end. Whereas the secret police sought to root out and destroy even the slightest hint of subversive activity among a terrified populace, Epperlein and Tucker sift through these illicit materials — and forge their own fresh images and interviews — with an eye toward illuminating the truth and possibly even vindicating the innocent., That Epperlein herself appears on camera is neither an accident nor a sign of authorial indulgence. She grew up in Chemnitz, a former East German manufacturing town that was once known as Karl-Marx-Stadt, or Karl Marx City. (A 40-ton bronze sculpture of Marx’s head still sits in the middle of the city, an ominous reminder of its Communist legacy and one hell of a Big Brother metaphor.), It was here that Epperlein’s father hanged himself in 1999, a decade after the collapse of the Berlin Wall. Before his suicide, he had received letters threatening to expose him as a former Stasi informant, a charge that doesn’t square with Epperlein’s memory of her father as a thoroughly decent and trustworthy man., But then, one of the film’s most troubling insights is that countless good men and women (and even children) were pressed and manipulated into service by the Stasi, who were skilled at using even the smallest nuggets of information as weapons of intimidation and control. The documentary continually lays bare the cruelty of a system that turned family members and friends against each other, effectively destroying the most crucial resource — trust — that a society needs to survive., Shot in evocative black and white, “Karl Marx City” is a sleek, absorbing detective story, a fascinating primer on mass surveillance in the pre-Snowden era, and a roving memoir of East German life. Epperlein returns to her hometown and steers the film down several intriguing alleys, including the curious phenomenon of Ostalgie, or nostalgia for life in  East Germany. One expert coolly dismisses the premise of “The Lives of Others,” Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck’s Oscar-winning 2006 drama about a Stasi agent who goes rogue to protect the people he’s spying on, as an implausible fabrication., This isn’t the first time Epperlein and Tucker have sifted through the wreckage of an authoritarian regime, as they did in their 2005 Iraq war documentary, “Gunner Palace,” which followed U.S. troops stationed in what was once Uday Hussein’s pleasure palace. In “Karl Marx City,” Epperlein seeks answers about her father at the former Stasi headquarters in Berlin, diving into an endless labyrinth of shelves that house the files kept on the East German populace (a staggering  69 miles’ worth of material)., In the film’s most fascinating moments, we see some of the grainy black-and-white footage recorded by Stasi informants: shots of friends and neighbors going in and out of buildings, or walking home from the store. The mundanity of the images doesn’t make them any less creepy or unnerving. In her voice-over narration, Epperlein describes the footage as “a kind of documentary truth, an epic of routine,” but it is also a chilling reminder of the banality of evil.
If food is your passion, Jeremiah Tower is a name to conjure with. A venerated chef who writer and critic Ruth Reichl calls “a game changer who defined what a modern American restaurant could be,” he was a legend who vanished from the scene only to reappear years later to attempt one more act of culinary magic., As directed by Lydia Tenaglia and executive produced by Anthony Bourdain — no mean chef himself — “Jeremiah Tower: The Last Magnificent” is a documentary understandably in awe of its subject, a film that finally fascinates despite some initial bumps in the road., In the 1970s and ’80s Californian Tower was at the pinnacle of the Bay Area restaurant world because of his central role in Berkeley’s Chez Panisse and his founding of Stars in San Francisco. Martha Stewart calls him “a father of American cuisine,” and the many food writers interviewed here can’t help but agree., Handsome, charismatic, the man who pioneered the concept of the open kitchen and perhaps the first of the modern celebrity chefs, Tower also had so imperious a personality even he has to admit “I seem to piss people off a lot.”, But when “The Last Magnificent” introduces Tower, a craggily handsome individual with something of a haunted look, there is not a restaurant or a set of chef’s whites in sight., Instead Tower is seen climbing through deserted Mayan ruins (Mexico is where he currently lives) as we hear his voice-over reading gnomic pronouncements from his journals. Things like “I have to stay away from human beings because somehow I am not one,” he intones, followed by, “everything that is real to me is what is hallucination for others.”, So when friends like Bourdain say “there is a locked room inside him, I haven’t been there, I don’t believe anyone has,” it certainly rings true., It’s the thesis of Tenaglia, whose credits are largely food-related television documentaries, that the key to unlocking that room is to investigate Tower’s childhood. It’s a fine idea, but it proves difficult to convey effectively. Not that Tower isn’t candid about his memories of being a poor little rich kid, taken around the world by wealthy parents with more money than sense who neglected him everywhere they went., Spending a lot of time in hotels, he became fascinated by their kitchens and claims to have read menus before he read books because they spoke to him in a language of their own., Aside from a bit of home movie footage, there isn’t a lot to illustrate all these memories, and Tenaglia has made the unwise decision to overindulge in awkward and off-putting re-creations of Tower’s early days. Re-creations have become a pernicious trend in docs, and these are especially lacking., Fortunately, those pre-restaurant days are soon over and things pick up noticeably once Tower, whose considerable interest in cooking had always been personal, not professional, is hired in 1972 to work in Alice Waters’ recently opened Chez Panisse., Though much about their tempestuous relationship is a matter of dispute, what all agree on is that the electric culinary collaboration between them was great for Chez Panisse specifically and a new wave of American cooking in general., In 1976, in Tower’s telling (Waters appears in the film only in archival footage), he wrote the menu for what was to become a legendary dinner to celebrate California cuisine, the first time local ingredients and named farmers were given credit for their role in this kind of a feast., The rest, obviously, was history, and as the restaurant got grander, with diners flying in on Lear jets, tensions rose and Tower left. The rift between he and Waters widened when the Chez Panisse Menu Cookbook was published in 1982 and Tower felt his contribution was slighted. “I can still feel the outrage,” he says now, and clearly he can., Tower opened Stars and its pioneering open kitchen in 1984 and took his concept of restaurant as theater to another level. The place hosted everyone from Mikhail Gorbachev to Run DMC and made Tower such a celebrated figure he appeared in a Dewar’s Profile advertisement., Towers does not talk about the multiple reasons for Stars’ eventual demise, though others do, and the film initially catches up to him living in Merida, rescuing and flipping old houses and cooking delicious meals for himself., Then, unexpectedly, comes a chance for a last hurrah, the opportunity to take on the traditionally thankless task of being the executive chef of New York's mammoth Tavern on the Green. Can Tower do great food for 700 diners without driving everyone crazy? "The Last Magnificent" takes us behind the scenes for this enigmatic individualist's possible final act.
Riots or rebellion? Anarchy or insurrection? Unrest or uprising? Whatever words are used to categorize it, as the 25th anniversary approaches of the frenzy of violence that swept Los Angeles beginning April 29, 1992, attention is being paid. A lot of attention., No fewer than five documentaries are being broadcast about those events, and no wonder. For one thing, the havoc caused was considerable, with more than 50 people killed, thousands injured and roughly a billion dollars in property damage sustained. Wherever you were in the city, you could see the smoke of a metropolis attacked by flames., And though a quarter-century is past, the events that began with a notorious acquittal in the trial of four police officers for the beating of Rodney King are far from settled history. And the societal situations that caused them are no closer to resolution., Two of those five documentaries are going to have theatrical releases before their TV airings. Though their aesthetic approaches are almost diametrically opposed, the skill with which each has been made enables them to in effect speak to each other. Seen back to back, these two documentaries have a powerful, even explosive impact even though they both cover essentially the same events., First was the March 3, 1991, traffic stop and savage beating of Rodney King by Los Angeles police officers, followed days later by the fatal shooting of high school student Latasha Harlins by Korean shop owner Soon Ja Du., Though Du was convicted of voluntary manslaughter, the judge rejected the jury's recommendation of prison time. Then came the trial of the four LAPD officers indicted in the King beating. They were acquitted, and incendiary crowd reaction at the intersection of Florence and Normandie soon went from bad to worse., The documentary opening first in theaters — on April 21 for one week at the Laemmle Music Hall in a version that is nearly an hour longer than the one that will be broadcast on ABC on April 28 — is John Ridley's "Let It Fall: Los Angeles 1982-1992.", John Ridley’s eyes narrow as he stands on an undistinguished stretch of Foothill Boulevard in Lake View Terrace, watching intently as traffic whizzes by condo developments near the 210 Freeway and Osborne Street., The Oscar-winning screenwriter (“12 Years a Slave”) and creator of racially charged..., John Ridley’s eyes narrow as he stands on an undistinguished stretch of Foothill Boulevard in Lake View Terrace, watching intently as traffic whizzes by condo developments near the 210 Freeway and Osborne Street., The Oscar-winning screenwriter (“12 Years a Slave”) and creator of racially charged..., Though it has its share of excellent footage from back in the day, the strength of "Let It Fall" is in its remarkable contemporary interviews, compelling both for the people recorded and the way the conversations are allowed to unfold., "LA 92," at the Laemmle Noho on April 28, two days before it is broadcast on the National Geographic Channel, takes the opposite tack. Directed by Dan Lindsay and TJ Martin, who won an Oscar for "Undefeated," "LA 92" intentionally avoids interviews and constructs a narrative entirely through immersion in archival footage., The fact that "Let It Fall" takes a deep dive into its interviews is no surprise, and not just because a team of veteran ABC folks, starting with producer Jeanmarie Condon, were involved. Ridley's previous writing credits, including  "12 Years A Slave" (for which he won an Oscar) and ABC's "American Crime," point in that direction as well., Understanding that the past is prologue, both documentaries, like the Oscar-winning "O.J.: Made In America," go back years before Rodney King. "Let It Fall" begins 10 years earlier, with the chokehold death of James Mincey Jr. that led to policies that had an effect on the King beating. Spoken to at length, for instance, are Mincey's girlfriend at the time and an LAPD officer who was part of the Mincey arrest team., The list of involved and involving people "Let It Fall" has persuaded to talk on camera is considerable, including Terry White, the deputy district attorney who prosecuted the King beaters; Lakeshia Combs, an eyewitness to the Latasha Harlins killing; Henry King, a Rodney King juror who for years hid his multiracial past, and Bobby Green, who says God instructed him to go to Florence and Normandie and save the life of badly beaten truck driver Reginald Denny., One of the film's most significant interviews is with former LAPD Lt. Michael Moulin, who passionately defends his controversial decision to pull police back from an early altercation in the Florence/Normandie area., "Let It Fall" understands the value of allowing its interview subjects to talk at greater, more involving length than is usual for documentaries, a technique that illuminates the complexities of reality and gives listeners a sense of the emotional textures of these people's lives., If "Let It Fall" begins 10 years before Rodney King, "LA 92" goes back even further, to the violence of Watts in 1965, in itself a huge and significant event., By sifting through and tying together an enormous variety of footage, directors Lindsay &amp; Martin (who also served as editor) create an experience that gives a full sense of the anarchy and rage of the post-King verdict days, thrusting us fully and disturbingly into events in very much of a You Are There manner., Among the more memorable clips show the victims of the beatings and, later, of the arson: a Korean woman recoiling from her burned store as if physically assaulted, another repeating,  "this is not fair, this is not fair," an African American arson victim close to tears, saying, "I come from the ghetto, that's not right.", Perhaps the quote that has the most impact, however, is one of the earliest, a passage from 1965's McCone Commission postmortem on what happened in Watts., "What shall it avail our nation if we can put a man on the moon but cannot cure the sickness of our cities?", It was a potent question then and, as these two fine documentaries demonstrate, it remains one today.
Set in late-’70s Boston, the ferocious, funny and relentless “Free Fire” places a group of shady characters in a deserted warehouse for the sale of a few cases of machine guns. A personal dispute between two of the least important people in the deal, guys just there to move boxes, quickly escalates from yelling to fists to handguns to everyone there in a full-fledged shootout., Once the shooting starts, the movie becomes a nostop battle. Amid the  chaos, eventually one low-level hoodlum yells out that he can’t remember which side he’s on. , “Free Fire” is directed by Ben Wheatley, who co-wrote and edited the film with his wife, Amy Jump. The  partnership between the two British filmmakers, who most recently gave us “High-Rise,” may be among the most exhilarating and genuinely collaborative in contemporary movies., Their work  has torn fearlessly through genres, combining a fan’s enthusiasm with a connoisseur’s eye. Following  the disorienting gut-punches of “Kill List,” the road trip serial killer rom-com of “Sightseers,” the psychedelic historical simplicity of “A Field in England” and the sprawling dystopian satire of “High-Rise,” “Free Fire” is a savagely funny and viciously precise distillation of one of the pair’s favorite themes: , Men are idiots., This is not a novel notion, but “Free Fire” sets out the ways  men can trip over themselves, from outright ego, lazy obliviousness, posturing projection, deluding rationalizations and on down the line. In smartly examining the foibles and fragility of the male psyche, Wheatley and Jump also make the case for self-awareness and understanding. , The cast members attack their roles with palpable glee, a sense of enthusiastic exaggeration to match the outrageous goings-on. Michael Smiley and Cillian Murphy play IRA operatives  who are the closest the film comes to having heroes; they just want to get the deal done and move on. Sharlto Copley relishes the eccentricities of his blowhard half-cracked crime lord while Sam Riley, Noah Taylor, Jack Reynor, Babou Ceesay and Enzo Cilenti make the most of it as they are caught in the crossire., Brie Larson and Armie Hammer  play fixers with no real stake in things. She becomes the glue holding it all together, and her performance unveils something thorny and dangerous beneath a placidly positive exterior. Asked if she’s with the FBI, her character Justine responds with the film’s signature line, “I’m IIFM — In it for Myself.”, Given the chaotic nature of the action, it’s a minor marvel that Wheatley, working with regular cinematographer Laurie Rose keeps the geography of the room and the location of each shooter consistently clear even as the action resets itself again and again, shifting dynamics, geography and allegiances depending on who can take aim at whom.  It helps that once everyone has suffered minor wounds they can’t move too fast; chase scenes played out at a crawl’s pace become a, er, running gag., “Free Fire” is executive produced by Martin Scorsese and his recent producer Emma Tillinger Koskoff, and the late-’70s Boston setting makes the new movie something of a parenthetical aside to Scorsese’s own “The Departed.” Wheatley’s film certainly could be seen as a shaggy dog shoot-’em-up fable that one cheap crook might tell to another while killing time.,  “Free Fire” is not  Wheatley’s best film, but it is a rollicking good time and, more important, an inadvertent skeleton key to thinking about and understanding the rest of his films.  Like cartoons in the corner of Mad magazine, this is marginalia that illuminates the larger text.
If vampires are defined as lethal beings who stalk the Earth feasting on human blood, Milo (Eric Ruffin), the isolated 14-year-old African American protagonist of Michael O’Shea’s quietly powerful directorial debut, technically fits the bill., Orphaned and withdrawn, Milo lives with his older brother, a PTSD-suffering veteran, in a Brooklyn housing project rife with gangbangers who bully Milo  and terrorize the block. Smart and too perceptive for his own good, he spends his lonely days and nights in the comfort of his VHS collection of vampire movies, poring over modern bloodsucking classics like “Thirst,” “Fright Night” and “Near Dark.”, Unlike most teenage boys navigating the usual existential angst of young adulthood, Milo doesn’t watch vampire flicks for kicks: He’s also studying them for “hunting” tricks, rules to avoid detection and capture and, perhaps, clues to the deep, desperate need that occasionally drives him to slip out of his apartment into the shadowy streets of Manhattan in search of his own victims., Bold and brutal in shocking spurts, the indie horror drama from writer-director O’Shea is a startling debut that leaves a fresh mark on the genre while celebrating its forbears. “The Transfiguration’s” embrace of its own vampiric influences run so deep that low-budget schlock king Lloyd Kaufman and NYC DIY cinema stalwart Larry Fessenden (“Habit”) turn up in cameos as unlucky victims of Milo’s nighttime stalking, their blood literally feeding the hunger of a younger generation., Milo’s routine — go to class, evade the questions of a concerned school counselor, watch more movies, find more victims—– is interrupted with the arrival of Sophie (Chloe Levine), a slightly older girl with self-destructive tendencies of her own who moves into the building with her abusive grandfather. He fights the urge to kill her and drink her blood, the surest sign of true love, or the closest thing to it he can muster., They wander the city, trading starkly different perspectives on what makes a good vampire movie, and find unexpected solace in one another, two unmoored kids in a big, unforgiving world., The sparkly vampires of “Twilight” do it for Sophie, but the emotionally paralyzed Milo has only one standard for vampire movies: Realism. He recommends “Let the Right One In,” the 2008 Swedish coming-of-age vampire flick about a bullied kid who falls for a vampire, and George A. Romero’s 1978 vampire tragedy “Martin” — the movies from which O’Shea’s script most heavily, and openly, borrows., By setting “The Transfiguration” in the inner city of contemporary America — and making his protagonist young, black, male and adrift in a system primed to neglect him — O’Shea creates a film far more brutal and bleak than either of those spiritual and textual predecessors., Whether or not Milo really must feed on human blood is left tantalizingly open-ended. The real questions surrounding what drew him to vampire lore in the first place cut directly into the mournful human yearnings that roil inside him, unable to find expression or release., Shot perceptively by Sung Rae Cho across a concrete but vibrant New York City landscape and largely filmed “live” in uncontrolled locations with just a skeleton crew and the film’s young actors, the slow-simmering tale brims with an abundance of space — physical space that engulfs Ruffin’s diminutive Milo in increasingly isolating tableaux, and emotional space that pays off with surprisingly tragic poignancy in the film’s final act., Brutally unflinching and melancholic, the film brings Milo’s affliction full circle as it reveals the source of his bloody fixation. It achieves a transcendent note as it lays out the grand plan he’s been orchestrating all along to find peace not only for himself but for the people he loves — requiem for the tortured vampires of stories past and for all those who find solace in their struggle.
Every once in a while, you need a good, juicy, erotic thriller. In the ’90s, they were plentiful, but now they're rare (forget the dopey “50 Shades” movies), which makes savoring the outlandishly entertaining “Unforgettable” worthwhile. It's a female-driven melodrama — a “women's picture” as they used to call them in the Hollywood of the 1940s — that deals frankly with the issues of domestic violence, trauma and motherhood, all wrapped up in a salacious and often deliciously campy package., Veteran producer Denise Di Novi makes “Unforgettable” her directorial debut, working with a script by Christina Hodson. Di Novi crafts a well-executed thriller that somehow balances these very sobering problems with the more over-the-top elements, thanks in large part to her lead actresses. Rosario Dawson plays the down-to-earth Julia, the film’s voice of reason. She's a domestic violence survivor who moves to Southern California from San Francisco to be with her new fiance, David (Geoff Stults)., On the other side of the spectrum is an amazing Katherine Heigl, making a triumphant comeback as David's terrifyingly Stepford-esque ex-wife, Tessa. Heigl is all power pumps and stick-straight hair as the Type-A Tessa, wound so tightly you know some screw is about to come loose — if it hasn't already. Her arch performance as this rattlesnake of a woman, coiled and ready to spring for attack, is revelatory. She's the villain Heigl was always supposed to play., Tessa and David have to navigate shared custody of their daughter, Lily (Isabella Kai Rice), which puts Tessa front and center in Julia and David's dreamy new relationship. All it takes is one hair tangle, a glimpse at the happy new blended family and a text about a wedding dress to send Tessa violently spiraling. She turns into an Internet-stalking, catfishing burglar, dredging up Julia's messy past to come back and haunt her., “Unforgettable” is tawdry, sometimes cheesy and definitely soapy. There are some insane choices made in the production design, which is perfect for a movie like this. It'd be all too easy to write it off as “guilty-pleasure” material, a higher-budget Lifetime movie. But that would denigrate female-driven entertainment that deals with the melodramas of the mind, body and soul from a woman's perspective. Though this movie has its outrageous moments, Di Novi puts the female emotional journey up front and treats things respectfully., But every erotic thriller needs some crazy, and thank goodness for Heigl's full commitment to her character's insanity. That campiness is needed in a picture like this, allowing the audience relief from the tension while we giggle at her enthusiastic hair brushing or wild-eyed mania. In a final scene, she's swathed gloriously in a mint caftan, her hair flowing. She calls to mind that other unforgettably controlling mother, Margaret White, from Brian De Palma's 1976 film, “Carrie,” played by Piper Laurie, who earned an Oscar nomination for that role. Heigl channels Laurie's performance with her lilting tones and soft savagery. It's a uniquely feminine kind of villainy, and Di Novi and Heigl understand it implicitly in order to execute it perfectly.
History is rife with horrific events that somehow manage to reveal  true humanity and heroism. Many of these events are underreported, underrepresented and misunderstood, such as the Armenian genocide — the extermination of 1.5 million Armenians and other ethnic and religious minorities by the Ottoman Empire, starting in 1915., Knowledge of this genocide isn't universal, and Turkey, the successor nation of the Ottoman Empire, still refuses to acknowledge it. The epic melodrama “The Promise,” based on these events, seeks to remedy popular understanding of the horror. It's a noble undertaking that only partially succeeds., Written by Robin Swicord and director Terry George, “The Promise” has all the trappings of a romantic epic — movie stars, love triangles, exotic destinations. It boasts Oscar Isaac, Christian Bale and gorgeous European locations, plus experienced talent behind the camera, so it's confounding then that “The Promise” falls so flat., The film is a color-by-numbers wartime drama. Isaac plays Mikael, a young medical student from a small Armenian village, pursuing his fortune in Constantinople. There he befriends a young Turk (Marwan Kenzari) and an American reporter (Bale) and falls in love with a worldly and well-traveled Armenian woman, Ana (Charlotte Le Bon), though he's promised to a young woman back home. When the Ottomans enter World War I, the group is torn apart by hatred, racism and violence., At least, that's what we can glean from the events depicted onscreen. Throughout its two-hour plus running time, there is nary an explanation of the political machinations behind the persecution of the Armenians. There's a bit of chit-chat and singing with some German soldiers, a mean Turkish father, and then suddenly everyone's being executed and shipped off to labor camps while villages burn., The lack of exposition could be intended to align us with Mikael's naive perspective. But you'll definitely leave “The Promise” with far more questions than you started. Perhaps we can never really answer why one group commits genocide against another, but it feels slightly irresponsible to make a film ostensibly shedding light on this atrocity and then not attempt to explain it in the least., Instead, “The Promise” is mostly concerned with the love triangle between Ana, Mikael and Chris, the reporter. And even the love triangle itself is a disappointment, as these men never seem too concerned that the other is romancing his girl., The usually charismatic Isaac is saddled with a dud of a character. Mikael spends most of the film buffeted by forces beyond his control and deferring to the desires of others, such as the army and his mother (Shohreh Aghdashloo). It's not until the third act that he starts to make his own decisions. The swaggering heroics are left to Bale as the Hemingway-esque American foreign correspondent., With seemingly all the right pieces, it's a disappointment that “The Promise” lacks the energy and originality needed to sustain itself. It might be fresh material, but the approach is decidedly stale., Katie Walsh is a Tribune News Service film critic.
“Born in China” is the latest installment in the Disneynature documentary series. It’s “Planet Earth” aimed at younger audiences, but any nature lover can find enjoyment here, especially in the stunning cinematography., While other installments have focused on specific species and ecosystems, “Born in China,” directed by Lu Chuan, gets up close and personal with species unique to China — pandas, snow leopards, cranes, Chiru antelope and golden monkeys. Chuan’s team follows these incredible animals across the seasons and throughout the circle of life while incorporating Chinese spiritual beliefs about life and death. John Krasinski narrates, and though he doesn’t achieve that mix of gravitas and cheeky wit that Sir David Attenborough brought to the classic nature series “Life on Earth” and “Planet Earth” his vocal stylings are perfectly homey and serviceable for the task of guiding us through the lives of these special animals., The footage captured is breathtaking for its access and intimacy. A few outtakes during the credits offer a look inside the production process, which involves both stationary hidden cameras attached to rocks and the like, as well as production crews trekking into the wilderness in pursuit of images. The small taste of behind-the-scenes information is so fascinating that you almost want to watch an entire documentary just about this process., The drama captured in “Born in China” is remarkable, from a territorial snow leopard standoff to the first steps of a baby panda and the antics of a group of young golden monkeys — though it’s clear that some of these interactions have been coaxed by creative filmmakers for maximum narrative enjoyment. The editors weave stories worthy of any Disney classic — Tao Tao the golden monkey is shunned by his family after the arrival of his baby sister, and his peers, the Lost Boys, don’t offer much solace either. Dawa the snow leopard hunts ferociously to provide for her cubs, but is it enough? Ya Ya the panda carefully guides her baby, Mei Mei, through the process of growing up., As deliciously cute and cuddly as Mei Mei and Ya Ya are, the breakout stars are definitely the golden monkeys. These curious creatures sport bright marigold fur and bluish-gray faces with huge expressive eyes. Their expressions and gestures are startlingly human, and there’s plenty of interpersonal and group drama to sustain their storyline, as Tao Tao leaves the family fold and returns after saving his baby sister from a hawk., The Disneynature films are always released close to Earth Day and strive to educate audiences about the importance of preserving nature. A message before the screening announced that seeing the film opening weekend would help raise funds for saving these animals. But as a nature film, “Born in China” stays resolutely within the confines of its region and topic. From watching the film, one wouldn’t know if these animals were endangered or threatened by man-made development, predators or climate change. The message stays firmly on spiritual questions about the circle of life but doesn’t educate or leave the audience with a personal call to action to protect these animals, and that feels like a missed opportunity., Katie Walsh is a Tribune News Service film critic.
A forward-thinking take on addressing the demise of the human race, the French documentary “Tomorrow” swaps the usual handwringing doomsday prophesizing in favor of a decidedly more proactive approach., Rattled by an ominous report by Bay Area professors Elizabeth Hadly and Anthony Barnosky warning of the looming realities of a tipping point concerning the state of the planet’s ecosystem, actress Mélanie Laurent (“Inglourious Basterds”) and activist Cyril Dion rolled up their sleeves and grappled with a way to share their concerns with a world “already fed up with catastrophes.”, The solution was to embark on a globe-trotting mission to find creative solutions to pressing environmental issues, from Detroit’s burgeoning urban farms to Copenhagen, which is well on its way to becoming the world’s first carbon-neutral city., Although the film, which won France’s César award for best documentary, allows too many of its talking heads to drone on after their valid points are made, while displaying a weakness for twee pop ditties that continually — and distractingly — spring up on the soundtrack, its Earth Day weekend arrival certainly couldn’t be more timely., Given the current U.S. administration’s position on climate science, Laurent and Dion’s passionate, off-the-beaten-path primer advocates thinking globally but acting locally with community-driven, grassroots alternatives that aren’t affected by any executive orders.
A twisty, protracted fight for justice is deftly traced in “Finding Oscar,” an absorbing, if grim, documentary from producer-director Ryan Suffern (who co-wrote with Mark Monroe) and executive producer Steven Spielberg., Pivoting around the 1982 massacre of more than 200 residents of the village of Dos Erres, Guatemala, by commando soldiers, the film spends most of its first half detailing the complex forces that led to this horrific event.  These include Guatemala’s 36-year civil war, which began in 1960; the right-wing coup that made Gen. Efraín Ríos Montt the country’s de facto president (he served from 1982 to 1983), and then-U.S. President Reagan’s support for Ríos Montt., But it’s the discovery, almost two decades after the Dos Erres genocide, that two young boys — Oscar Ramírez and Ramiro Cristales — had been abducted and raised by the very soldiers who had killed their families that moves the narrative into more personal and emotional territory., A search ensues for Cristales (now living in Winnipeg, Canada) and, more dramatically, Ramírez, who had moved to Massachusetts in 2005 with wife Nidia. The hope: that Ramírez would serve as “living evidence” of the massacre and bolster the elusive case against its perpetrators. (Although several former soldiers were eventually sentenced to life in prison, Ríos Montt’s 2013 conviction was overturned; he awaits a re-trial.), Lucid interviews with human-rights activists, attorneys, anthropologists, authors and others help frame this multi-faceted portrait.  Ramírez’s reunion with the biological father he hadn’t seen since 1982 provides special poignancy.
Patagonian landscapes in 16 mm and Hollywood real estate shot in 35 mm provide a visually sleek backdrop for mighty uninteresting relationships in the pretentious indie “Somewhere Beautiful.” Commercials director Albert Kodagolian’s debut feature intercuts two stories of sought-after male artists in romantic turmoil with pretty young things: an arrogant American photographer (Anthony Bonaventura) on an Argentina location shoot whose translator squeeze (María Alche) is rapidly losing interest; and in L.A., a hotshot filmmaker (Kodagolian) moping over his beautiful wife leaving him and their 2-year-old daughter., It’s as exquisitely insufferable as it sounds, from the retrograde view of women who care for/cater to/wring their hands over powerful men — do the women all have to look like models? — to the superficially cerebral, stilted rehashing of art-versus-life debates that were getting stale when Woody Allen began appropriating them from foreign films in the ’70s. The credits fess up to the whole thing being an homage to Atom Egoyan’s self-reflexive oddity “Calendar,” without ever justifying its existence beyond that hat-tip., At one point, Kodagolian addresses his own heritage as an Armenian-born Iranian with refugee camp memories, and a kernel of intrigue develops, until he cuts to who he’s talking to — the fresh-faced, accommodating cosmetology student (Matilda Lutz) babysitting his child — and “Somewhere Beautiful” reverts to being the movie version of that navel-gazing bore at the party from whom you can’t wait to escape.
The contemporary romantic drama “A Night Without Armor” (yes, the title of Jewel’s poetry book) borrows the “Before Sunrise” model for its explorations of destiny, love and the road not taken. Meeting under a meteor show at a Civil War-era fort, two complete strangers Adam (Jacob Fishel) and Nicole (Pepper Binkley) share a single night of connection, confessing their personal histories, life philosophies and deepest secrets and desires., A quick perusal of writer/producer Chaun Domingue’s public biography indicates a shared history with Adam, so it’s clear the film is largely autobiographical or inspired from personal events. The feelings, existential questions and relationship struggles feel real, but that’s where it stops. Nicole behaves in a way that seems like a male fantasy — the way men might want strange women at abandoned forts at night to act. She’s quirky, funny, open, approaches him and strikes up a conversation, then proceeds to persistently draw him out of his shell., Director Steven Alexander does what he can with the constraints of the script — the characters are relegated to stargazing and exploring the fort at night, so visually there’s not a lot to work with. But the visuals are not the issue that plagues “A Night Without Armor.” Though deeply personal and heartfelt, the overwrought film falls prey to too much melodrama and not enough realism or humor.
For a movie that begins with a quote from Martin Luther King Jr., “Nola Circus” is impressively tone deaf on race. Written and directed by French filmmaker Luc Annest, the comedy traffics in stereotypes and uses hate speech with an embarrassing frequency. It features elements of a minstrel show in costume and performance that will make audiences cringe — without making them laugh., Set against the backdrop of rival barbershops in New Orleans, Will (Martin Bats Bradford), is secretly romancing Nola (a miscast Jessica Morali), the sister of the volatile Denzel (Reginal Varice). When Will tells Denzel that a pizza deliveryman is the one dating Nola, Denzel begins fighting each one he can find. Will’s lie starts a war with the local Italian restaurant, whose employees call in outside help to stop Denzel., For all its problems of racist overtones, awful dialogue and scattershot plot, “Nola Circus” looks gorgeous. Annest has a great eye, as does his cinematographer Andrew Strahorn, with both interiors and exteriors boasting rich colors and nice framing. However, the strong visual style can’t make up for a film that seems unaware of its cultural context and how it will be seen in 2017 and beyond. The flaws of “Nola Circus” aren’t limited to its outrageous and offensive approach. It’s that it never succeeds in bringing viewers onto its wavelength, which is probably a good thing for humanity’s sake.
In May 1925, the legendary British explorer, surveyor and archaeologist Lt. Col. Percy Fawcett vanished, along with his son Jack and their friend Raleigh Rimmell, while searching for the ruins of an ancient South American civilization. It was Fawcett’s eighth expedition to the Amazon, and it’s the third one we see dramatized in “The Lost City of Z,” James Gray’s rich, meditative and deeply transporting portrait of a man who found himself compelled to enter the jungle again and again, even if it meant leaving behind his family and defying the expectations and assumptions of those who sent him., “A man’s reach should exceed his grasp,” Fawcett notes, and so, perhaps, should the reach of any filmmaker trying to get a handle on this particular mystery. And Gray, a shrewd and soulful Hollywood classicist, has duly allowed Fawcett’s obsession to fuel his own. In hacking his way through the tangled narrative undergrowth of David Grann’s nonfiction bestseller, and transforming the Amazon’s legendary “green hell” into a heavenly celluloid vision, the director evinces the kind of faith in the power of cinema that once led masters like Francis Ford Coppola and Werner Herzog into their own storied episodes of downriver madness., Among other things, that faith has compelled Gray to leave his native New York, an urban jungle that he has spent most of his career colonizing, starting with his 1994 Brighton Beach-set crime thriller, “Little Odessa,” and culminating in his epic Ellis Island melodrama, “The Immigrant” (2013). If that film’s ambitious period re-creation and elegiac sense of tragedy pointed the way toward “The Lost City of Z,” it’s still remarkable how boldly Gray approaches two new and equally distant early 20th century frontiers here, stretching from the upper echelons of British society to the uncharted reaches of the South American wilderness., Fawcett, for his part, seems to have felt much more at home in the latter. He is played by Charlie Hunnam (“Sons of Anarchy”), who, despite his handsome blond features and athletic build, projects little in the way of a golden boy’s arrogance. When we first meet Fawcett in 1905, he is an undecorated British army major stationed in Cork, Ireland, eager to distinguish himself and erase the damaging legacy of his father’s dissolute ways., An assignment from the Royal Geographical Society of London — a two-year mapmaking expedition along the much-disputed border of Bolivia and Brazil — does not quite promise the glorious destiny he has in mind. But across the Atlantic, into the jungle and down the Amazon he goes, leaving behind his pregnant wife, Nina (Sienna Miller), and their young son, Jack, and plunging into a world where deadly diseases, sharp-toothed predators and wary tribespeople lie in wait for him and his comrades, Henry Costin (Robert Pattinson) and Arthur Manley (Edward Ashley)., But the jungle’s natural wonders and horrors are not what seem to interest Gray most. Notwithstanding a snake, a panther and a bloodthirsty school of piranhas, the director has largely cut back on Grann’s endlessly detailed panoply of creepy-crawlies without in any way derailing the viewer’s sense of wonderment. Shooting on 35-millimeter film (as he did with “The Immigrant”), the cinematographer Darius Khondji duly honors the intoxicating beauty of this humid emerald forest in luminously textured images that seem to beckon us as surely as they must have beckoned Fawcett. Charlie Hunnam, Robert Pattinson and Sienna Miller star in "The Lost City of Z.", Charlie Hunnam, Robert Pattinson and Sienna Miller star in "The Lost City of Z.", Amid the gathering mists, the dense foliage and the immersive soundscape, which occasionally merges with the restrained swells of Christopher Spelman’s score, you might glean the flickering specters of great movies past. A jaw-droppingly surreal interlude in which Fawcett stumbles on an opera house in a clearing nods to “Fitzcarraldo,” while a sudden ambush signaled by a deadly rain of arrows is scarcely Gray’s sole invocation of “Apocalypse Now.”, It is here too that Fawcett uncovers his first clues — hand-sculpted artifacts, whispers among the indigenous people he encounters — that this jungle may hold the remnants of a lost civilization. This fabled El Dorado looms ever larger in Fawcett’s imagination when he returns to London and tries to persuade his fellow society members of a city that may predate Western civilization — an idea that Gray dramatizes, in a terrifically raucous sequence, as an affront to the cultural arrogance of the British Empire., The discoveries that fascinate Gray here are not strictly anthropological, and his sense of the world as a teeming jungle, cruel and merciless and indifferent to human survival, does not begin and end with the Amazon. He shows us the essential hypocrisy of a civilization in which human beings can be subjected to rigid yet arbitrary class divisions one minute, then tossed into the great, bloody equalizer of World War I the next — as we see when Fawcett, Costin and Manley find themselves caught up in the 1916 Battle of the Somme, whose horrifying brutality the film evokes with extraordinary vividness and restraint., In the face of these atrocities, it makes a strange kind of sense that Fawcett might feel more at home in the company of a cannibal tribe he encounters on a 1912 expedition back to the Amazon. “We must attempt to engage,” he tells his fellow explorers, none more quietly loyal than Costin, whom the thickly bearded Pattinson plays with wry, witty understatement. Costin stands in stark contrast to the cowardly and treacherous James Murray (a supremely loathsome Angus Macfadyen), a fellow society traveler who will prove to be a thorn in Fawcett’s side even after they return home., For all its lush, golden-hued classicism, which might seem to invite the temptations of nostalgia, “The Lost City of Z” attacks the era’s colonialist attitudes with a critical and bracingly modern spirit. Fawcett doesn’t approach the “savages” as a white savior or superior; he shows them the same respect (perhaps more) that he accords his own peers, reserving his contempt instead for the rubber-producing industry that has decimated their region., If this Fawcett is a model of enlightenment in many ways, he remains very much a man of his moment in others. Some of the picture’s most gripping moments reveal the personal toll of his long absences from home, including one scene in which Nina — played by Miller in one of her sharpest performances — gives angry voice to the realization that her own adventurous and independent spirit has no outlet in this patriarchal world. Fawcett’s complicated relationship with Jack (played as a teenager by Tom Holland) is no less beautifully realized, and their initial estrangement finds moving reconciliation in the vast adventure that awaits and unites them at movie’s end., Most actors who dine in West Hollywood delis don't talk to beret-clad strangers.‎, And they're especially not likely to be listening to one of those strangers deliver disquisitions about wine. ‎, Yet, improbably, there is Charlie Hunnam — snappily dressed Brit, gritty-as-dirt Jax from “Sons of Anarchy”..., Most actors who dine in West Hollywood delis don't talk to beret-clad strangers.‎, And they're especially not likely to be listening to one of those strangers deliver disquisitions about wine. Yet, improbably, there is Charlie Hunnam — snappily dressed Brit, gritty-as-dirt Jax from “Sons of Anarchy”..., Hunnam was cast as Fawcett after Brad Pitt (one of the film’s executive producers) and Benedict Cumberbatch bowed out, and that inevitable sense of having something to prove can only have helped; this is easily his finest and most disciplined film performance. His Fawcett might have benefited from a touch more madness, a more consuming sense of obsession, but you feel it blazing within him nonetheless, inseparable from the keen intelligence and tremendous physical fortitude that made him such an exemplary explorer., “The Lost City of Z” is the kind of picture whose classicism, a term often confused with conventionality, feels increasingly like a radical statement of intent. Fawcett’s journeys into the Amazon, each one drawing him a little further into his heart of darkness, provide the film with a steady rhythm and a clean three-act structure, but its hauntingly lyrical final scenes deliver the very opposite of closure. The movie may, in the end, frustrate your desire for straight-up thrills and clear answers, but its irresolution is masterful — sincere, generous and entirely appropriate to the deeply searching story it has to tell., Fawcett has become a near-mythic avatar of obsessive wanderlust; his travels inspired great writers including Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Evelyn Waugh, and he is purported to be a chief inspiration for Indiana Jones. In the decades following his disappearance, numerous explorer-disciples attempted to retrace his steps, and many paid for the attempt with their own lives. Gray offers up his own poetic speculation, but he doesn’t pretend to know any of the answers they sought. His movie is an incandescent reminder that the world’s most beautiful mysteries endure precisely because they remain unsolved.
Subtle, unsettling, slyly amusing, "Norman: The Moderate Rise and Tragic Fall of a New York Fixer" takes some getting used to because it's the kind of film we're not used to seeing., Starring an unexpectedly persuasive Richard Gere and the first English-language film from top Israeli filmmaker Joseph Cedar, this delicate, novelistic character study is what more American independent films would be like if more were made by thoughtful grown-ups who gravitated toward nuance and complexity., The gifted Cedar, a writer-director whose last two works, "Beaufort" and "Footnote," were Oscar nominated, never makes the same film twice. Here he's come up with an entirely involving drama about means and ends, illusion and delusion and the price having your dreams come true can extract, all of it centering on a man named Norman., Norman's last name, Oppenheimer, is Cedar's acknowledged tribute to Joseph Suss Oppenheimer, an influential and ill-fated 18th century "court Jew" who was a banker and behind-the-scenes mover and shaker for a powerful German duke., Impeccably played by Gere, who has completely immersed himself in a very unlikely role, this Oppenheimer starts out without even a thimbleful of money or influence. A pusher, a hustler, an eternal searcher for the exploitable angle, Norman has nothing to go on but his drive., In a wise but unorthodox move, Cedar doesn't try to explain or psychoanalyze Norman, doesn't provide his back story or reveal his secrets, doesn't even tell us where Norman lives or whether his claims of family beyond his nephew Philip (the protean Michael Sheen) are true or not. It simply presents his actions in their confounding single-mindedness., Always dressed in the same camel-hair topcoat and gray flat cap over a serviceable black suit, a bag slung across his body and phone earplugs at the ready, Norman is a one-man army., Constantly walking and talking on the streets of Manhattan, unless he's taking a herring-and-crackers break at a synagogue run by trusting Rabbi Blumenthal (an unexpected Steve Buscemi), Norman is fighting to promote himself at all costs. Told he's like "a drowning man trying to wave at an ocean liner," he insists "but I'm a good swimmer.", When "Norman" opens, the details of the project he is seen promoting are not clear, but there's never any doubt of the ferocity with which he's pushing it., Searching for a way to connect with powerful financier Arthur Taub (Josh Charles), Norman button-holes people wherever he finds them, exaggerating and insinuating, trafficking in half-truths, evasions, prevarications and even outright lies., Absolutely impervious to rejection, unfazed by blows that would stun a bull elephant, Norman keeps going not only because that's who he is but also because he truly believes his middle-man talents are providing a service by connecting those whom only he can help., Norman's search for potential Taub leverage leads him to the visiting Micha Eshel, Israel’s obscure but ambitious deputy minister of Industry, Trade and Labor beautifully played by Lior Ashkenazi (the younger Talmudic scholar in Cedar's brilliant "Footnote."), Inveigling his way into conversation with Eshel in front of a high-end Manhattan shoe boutique run by the ethereal Jacques (a wonderful cameo by Isaach De Bankole), Norman ends up spending $1,192, tax included, buying the Israeli what he calls "the most expensive pair of shoes in New York." It's a purchase that will change his life., For, three years and numerous favors later, a miracle happens. Obscure no more, Eshel becomes prime minister and anoints Norman his "unofficial ambassador to New York Jewry," leading to some sublime scenes illustrating with cinematic elan what it feels like to have doors previously closed swinging open., Those open doors, as it turns out, don't only offer opportunity, they let in a host of problems Norman never had before, as people expect more from him and it becomes trickier than ever for him to deliver., In addition to Gere and the other stars, Cedar has made excellent use of fine actors like Charlotte Gainsbourg, Dan Stevens, Hank Azaria and Harris Yulin in supporting roles and in general dazzles us with his great command of his complex story., As "Norman" hurtles toward its daring and unexpected conclusion, one of the subversive things the film does is encourage us, against all expectation, to see things from the point of view of its often irritating protagonist., Maybe, just maybe, Norman's ability to create an intricate filigree of favors and obligation makes him not a man on the make but an unintentional saint, engaged in the sacred task of tikkun olam, the repair of a broken world. It's something you'll have to think about, and providing that kind of substance is what Joseph Cedar's films are always about.
“Graduation,” a film of gripping moral suspense from the Romanian writer-director Cristian Mungiu, opens with a rock being hurled through the window of a middle-aged doctor named Romeo (Adrian Titieni). It is the first of several attacks that take place over the course of the movie, including a second act of vandalism and an attempted sexual assault. Mungiu’s purpose here is not to identify the guilty (which would take a while), but rather to establish an atmosphere of ambiguous unease., Bleak, naturalistic and flawlessly acted, “Graduation” distills the mood and moral decay of a place whose gray skies and nondescript housing blocks feel like permanent reminders of its dark history. Unlike Mungiu’s 2007 masterpiece, “4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days,” which unfolded in the final days of Nicolae Ceausescu’s Communist dictatorship, the new film is set in the present, but the past continues to cast a long shadow. A sense of desperation, mostly venal but sometimes violent, seems to hover in the very air these men and women breathe., And while Romeo is a mild-mannered, outwardly respectable contributor to society, his own sins — far more than those committed against him and his family — are what seem to interest the movie most. “I have this feeling someone’s following me,” he says, and that someone might as well be the filmmaker himself, whose hyper-alert camera stays fixed on the good (and sometimes not-so-good) doctor as he navigates a labyrinth of personal and professional corruption., The drama is set in motion when his teenage daughter, Eliza (Maria Dragus), fends off a would-be rapist on her way to school one morning — a senseless attack that disturbs Romeo for reasons beyond the initial shock and lingering trauma. Eliza is about to take the final exams that could secure her a scholarship to Cambridge, and the attack comes as an ill-timed blow to her academic future, rattling her nerves, shattering her wrist and forcing her to wear a heavy cast that, the exam proctors worry, might be concealing a cheat sheet., Their suspicions turn out to be thoroughly justified, not because Eliza is a cheater but because just about everyone else is. Over the course of two sharply plotted, grimly absorbing hours, “Graduation” becomes a steady accrual of petty vices, under-the-table exchanges and quiet betrayals. Some of these have been happening for a while, like Romeo’s affair with a single mother, Sandra (Malina Manovici) — a detail foreshadowed here by his chilly estrangement from his long-suffering wife, Magda (Lia Bugnar)., The love that Romeo and Magda might have once felt for one another — perhaps before they returned to Romania from exile in 1991, hoping for a better life post-Communism — has long since been displaced entirely onto their daughter, along with what remains of their hopes and dreams. That Eliza might escape this dreadful place is all that matters to Romeo, even if it means calling in favors with an old friend at the police station (Vlad Ivanov), a tight-lipped exam board official (Gelu Colceag) and an ailing politician (Petre Ciubotaru) who might benefit from his professional attention., Romeo, like some of his conspirators, tries to reassure himself that these machinations are necessary, a last-minute deviation from an otherwise strict ethical code that he prides himself on upholding. But “Graduation” gives the lie to such self-serving reassurances. No less than “4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days,” which similarly used a compressed time frame to shed light on a condition of long-term malaise, this is a movie about the moral cost of survival — the negotiations and compromises that each character must continually make with others, and with his or her own conscience., Mungiu, who shared the directing prize at last year’s Cannes Film Festival (with Olivier Assayas for “Personal Shopper”), is a master of concentration. Working for the first time with the cinematographer Tudor Vladimir Panduru, the director invests his characters’ mundane conversations with a hushed, almost conspiratorial intensity. At its best, Mungiu’s style achieves the clarity of the confessional: His characters may deflect and dissemble, but the camera, with its restless following movements and unblinking long takes, gives them no room to hide., At times Titieni, with his fine-grained Everyman schlumpiness, brings to mind Olivier Gourmet, the great Belgian actor often cast in the restless, relentlessly compassionate films of Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne (who happen to be credited among “Graduation’s” co-producers). But Romeo’s failings are held in check, and to some extent corrected, by Eliza, a sensitive child who finds herself caught between obedience, disillusionment and her own desire for freedom — including the freedom to continue seeing her boyfriend, Marius (Rares Andrici), whom Romeo can’t abide., Art-house audiences may recall the gifted Dragus as one of the young children in “The White Ribbon,” Michael Haneke’s 2009 portrait of a pre-World War I town in the grip of an eerily pervasive evil. There is something of Haneke’s steely observation in “Graduation,” but there is also a warmer, more hopeful vision of humanity — a grace born of the film’s toughness and clarity of vision.
It sounds paradoxical but, if done right, films about a life ending can be the most life-affirming films you'll see. “Truman,” a great success in its native Spain, is definitely done right., Essentially a two-hander about a terminally ill man and his lifelong best friend, "Truman" swept the 2016 Goyas, Spain's equivalent to the Academy Awards, winning best film, screenplay and director as well as actor and supporting actor for its pair of veteran stars., That would be Ricardo Darin, Argentina’s biggest attraction, best known in this country for “The Secret in Their Eyes,” and Javier Cámara, who has appeared in several Pedro Almodovar films, including “Talk to Her” and “Bad Education.”, Darin and Camára, who also shared the best actor prize at Spain’s prestigious San Sebastian festival, were director Cesc Gay's first choices, and it’s not hard to see why., Both accomplished performers for whom not pushing too hard is second nature, they are ideal for this feelingly done, honest and very human story about what is wanted from life as death approaches, a satisfying film that is moving in both expected and unexpected ways., Though it’s set in Madrid, “Truman” begins not there but on an early morning in Canada, where Tomas (Cámara) is saying goodbye to his wife and young children before taking off for Spain, where he is paying a visit to best friend Julian (Darin)., The visit is a surprise, but the underlying reason for it is not. Julian has found out that the lung cancer he thought had been contained has in fact dangerously metastasized., More than that, tipped off by Julian’s attractive cousin Paula (Dolores Fonzi), Tomas knows that Julian, sick of hospitals and medical regimens, has decided not to have the cancer treated anymore. “I’m done,” he tells his friend, and it’s clear he means it., In a lesser scenario, “Truman” would be taken up by Tomas trying to change Julian’s mind, but here Tomas quickly realizes that his friend cannot be dissuaded by him or anyone else., Instead, Tomas spends the four days he has left of his trip in Madrid accompanying Julian as his friend tries to tie up the loose ends in his life and arrange things ahead of time so that his death is not a burden to the survivors., Though the two men could not be closer, they are far from identical, which leads to considerable amount of amusing bickering between the two., Tomas, a scientist back home in Canada, is a planner and worrier, while Julian, an actor who is still working on stage, is dramatic and emotional, someone who enjoys nothing better than making a scene — like the one he creates when he berates colleagues who are avoiding him because of his illness., The darkly amusing situations the men navigate together include shopping for a casket and dealing with the producer of the play Julian is in. But much of their time is taken up with the character that gives the film its name., Truman, however, is not a person but a dog, a large and elderly bullmastiff with a mind of its own that Julian, with his son at university in Amsterdam, considers to be his second child., Completely consumed with Truman's well-being, Julian has a comical conversation with a vet about how the dog will react to his death and even takes meetings with a series of potential adoptive families who would inherit the dog when he dies., Julian believes that “the only thing that matters in life is relationships,” but because this bromide is  harder to put into practice than he anticipates, it’s a pleasure to watch these believable individuals as they try. “Each person dies as best they can,” the actor says, and those indeed prove to be words to live by.
Unusual in its story, unexpected in its structure, made with an unerring instinct for emotional connection, "Heal the Living" wallops us without ever overplaying its hand., Co-written and directed by France's Katell Quillevere, "Heal the Living" reveals a gift for joining skillful visual filmmaking with moving, affecting storytelling, all in the service of a story that unfolds in surprising ways., "Heal the Living" is an ensemble film, despite having Tahar Rahim and Emmanuelle Seigner, two of France’s top actors in key roles, as it follows not an individual but an actual human heart. Involved in this story, adapted by the director and Gilles Taurand from a successful novel, is the teenage boy the heart came from, the mature woman it might be going to, and the two teams of doctors trying to make  that  transition work., Though there are some heartbreaking flashbacks, these people are introduced sequentially, as their time in the narrative arrives, which adds an energy to the proceedings. The one thing that unites the boy and the woman, the film's heartening through line, are those doctors, brought to vivid life not as saints  but  like everyone else in "Heal the Living," people striving to be at their best for the challenges life inevitably throws at them., Seen first is 17-year-old Simon (Gabin Verdet), introduced in the port city of Le Havre taking a clandestine early morning departure from the room of his high school sweetheart Juliette (Galatea Bellugi). Devoted to cycling and in general yearning for activity, Simon is not so much a daredevil as an exulter in physicality, in the joy of being alive., Meeting up with two friends, he hops into a van for a ride to some early morning surfing. Beautifully shot (as the whole film is) by Tom Harari, the surfing has the potential for danger inherent in the sport, but the problem for Simon comes not in the water but on the drive back., Presented to us in a unusual visual way, Simon's accident puts him in a local hospital, unconscious with severe brain damage and no chance of recovery., Enter now the hospital's staff, primarily senior surgeon Pierre (Boult Lanners), rumpled, all business yet caring, and, later, medical specialist Thomas, the physician who deals with potential organ donations, played with a convincing sensitivity by Rahim, who shot to French stardom with Jacques Audiard's very different "Un Prophete.", Added at this point are Simon's estranged and distraught parents, first his mother, Marianne (an impressive Seigner), and then father Vincent (French rapper Kool Shen), who holds himself responsible because he introduced his son to surfing., Unwilling to believe that their son, hooked up to machines and looking still alive, is in fact brain dead, the parents are confronted by Pierre, who says simply, "it's the truth and you have to hear it." Unwilling to even consider organ donation at first, they go home to think about it, understanding that the clock is ticking on how long their son's body will remain viable for saving other lives., Brought into the mix next is Claire (French Canadian actress Anne Dorval), a difficult Parisian whose weak heart is getting weaker. We meet the people important to her, including her two sons, a concert pianist (Alice Taglioni) she has been close to, and the medical team she will work with if the transplant is to happen., Laying out "Heal the Living's" plot this way makes its filmmaking style feel more straight ahead than it is. In reality,  Quillevere is guided by the logic of emotion as much as any narrative thread, giving this, her third feature, a remarkable sense of immediacy, always alive to the expressive potential of each scene., The best illustration of this is the exquisitely crafted flashback scene of the moments when Simon and Juliette became a couple. It's appearance in the film feels random but it is not, it is perfectly placed to create maximum expressive resonance. Working like this is second nature to Quillevere, and it's why "Heal the Living" is such a success.
However you feel about the ubiquity of high school turmoil as a movie genre, it’s safe to say there’s nothing like animator Dash Shaw’s “My Entire High School Sinking Into the Sea,”  a colorful, hand-drawn calamity comedy that is equal parts John Hughes, Wes Anderson and Irwin Allen., Shaw, whose work encompasses graphic novels (“New School,” “Cosplayers”) and the cartoon arts (the video “Seraph” for Sigur Rós), brings to bear a delightfully absurd sensibility and a keenly funny understanding of youthful alienation and ambition neurosis. You’d be surprised how much the two fit together in Shaw’s succession of ever-more fantastical disaster scenarios: the cafeteria powwow about imminent flooding death that devolves into petty cliquishness, friends arguing about whether yoga is exercise while averting near-demise, a tough-as-nails lunch lady turning into an unexpected (to the scared kids, that is, not to herself) action hero. The collage at work in Shaw’s debut feature is both figurative and, considering the layering of drawing, painting and photographic image, literal., The same goes for the fault lines that run through cliff-side Tides High School: They define the students’ group-segregated lives yet also exist as a reality underneath the building. Shaw’s self-named anti-hero Dash (the voice of Jason Schwartzman) and bespectacled Assaf (Reggie Watts) are outcast best buds who fancy themselves muckrakers for their school paper, which is edited by the third member of their misfit trio, bookish Verti (Maya Rudolph). When Dash’s over-sensitivity threatens to break up the gang, he turns on his friends, but in bitter exile also discovers the scoop of his sophomore life: a top-down scandal exposing the building as not being up to the earthquake safety code., Nobody believes Dash, because he’s a serial exaggerator. But he’s proved right the hard way when the mildest of subterranean shocks sends the school sliding into the Pacific. The only true escape — from sharks, drowning or students still harboring lingering school resentments — means finding one’s way to the roof, and making unlikely friends, including the aforementioned Lunch Lady Lorraine (Susan Sarandon) and a snobby joiner named Mary (Lena Dunham in the Molly Ringwald role)., As externalized visions of high school hellishness go, Shaw’s doesn’t always translate into the most cohesively entertaining of mash-ups, but his techniques are attention-grabbers. Sometimes, it’s as if Lynda Barry were a cutout-mad Fauvist. Sometimes, it’s the trippiest “Scooby-Doo” episode you’ve ever seen. The strangely mixed sound design for the deadpan dialogue simultaneously recalls Robert Altman and Judd Apatow. Most of the time, characters are crudely rendered in simple lines, but one wistful recollection of a camp summer features detailed illustrations that feel like something out of Highlights magazine (until the jokey closeup of urine-stained underwear breaks that spell)., But even at its most art-installation-like — when your attention might be tempted to wander as Shaw wrestles with focusing on story or visuals — it percolates with the imagination of a passionate few artists, rather than narcotizes in the manner of industrialized animation, and that’s a beautiful thing. Sleeping sharks get ZZZs above their heads. A character’s color — it often changes — usually feels connected to the intensity of what he or she is feeling. And sometimes there’s a photograph of a  cotton swab., Better still, Shaw’s adventure story, with its shades of “The Poseidon Adventure,” allows for pockets of feeling that, though conceived as semi-winking homages to those “Breakfast Club”-like moments of class-divide understanding, still carry a measure of sincerity. For a movie that impishly likes cutting to animated lungs during its crisis-of-breath moments and gets edgy kicks out of depicting its high body count, it’s the film’s secretly beating heart — the awareness that surviving high school brings — that underlies its creativity. It makes Shaw’s frequent flights of head-scratching comic fancy even feel emotionally appropriate. Because, at a certain point, in the words of that other comic book movie, you’ll believe a poetically waxing lunch lady can fly.
Anyone who watched Sergio García’s thrilling sudden death victory in last weekend’s Masters knows that golf can be dramatic. That tradition goes back 150 years to the time of Old Tom Morris, who won the Open Championship (what Americans call the British Open) in 1861, 1862, 1864 and 1867, before passing the mantle to his son, Young Tom or Tommy Morris, also a four-time winner., The Morrises and their flinty, but ultimately tender relationship are the subject of the handsomely produced drama “Tommy’s Honour,” directed by Jason Connery and based on a book by Kevin Cook, who also wrote the screenplay with his wife, Pamela Marin., Though ostensibly set on various links throughout Britain, this faithful and often moving film addresses much more than golf heroics, commenting on issues of tradition, class and family, especially the bonds between father and son., Golf has changed a lot since the Morrises first teed their shots from small, handcrafted hills of dirt, and they contributed mightily to that modernization. Old Tom, the longtime greenskeeper at Scotland’s Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, helped organize the first Open, hand-crafted balls and clubs in his shop and designed dozens of courses, rapidly evolving a sport that had already been played for four centuries. Young Tommy was a true innovator on the links, creating shots and strategies that would affect the game for decades. , In the film, Tommy is played with antsy rebellion by Jack Lowden, who bears a strong resemblance to Dennis Christopher, star of the 1979 cycling film “Breaking Away,” another sports drama rooted in class with a strong father-son dynamic. Learning the game from Old Tom, played by Peter Mullan, Tommy surpasses his father by the time he is a teen., Nothing but pride, and perhaps a lament of aging, passes over Old Tom’s face as he watches his son’s progress. The conflict between the two men largely emerges from Tommy’s rejection of his father’s working-class model of maintaining the course and attending to the club members’ needs with lessons and equipment. In other words, knowing his place., In the 19th century, amateurism was idealized, with professional athletes viewed as something like prized thoroughbreds, though with less social standing. Club members, real “gentlemen,” staked professional golfers’ matches, gambling large sums of money and then paying the golfers a small cut of the winnings. Tommy Morris challenged the status quo, successfully demanding a larger share., Tommy chafes at the idea of the already rich men profiting from his talent. A bit of a dandy, he sees how the upper class lives and wants a piece of the action, standing up to the club’s pompous chief, Alexander Boothby (cheekily played by Sam Neill), while earning the disapproval of Old Tom., The elder Morris initially sees little need for change in a society that allows him to provide for his family, yet remain in debt. But through his love for Tommy, he bestows a begrudging acceptance. The veteran Mullan, best known for his work with Ken Loach and Danny Boyle, can do more with a narrowing of the eyes than most actors can with a soliloquy, and his ruddy features and stoic demeanor anchor the film, grounding it in social realism whenever it tends toward romanticism and sentimentality., The younger Morris also bucks convention when he falls for Meg Drinnen (“Guardians of the Galaxy’s” Ophelia Lovibond), a maid  10 years his senior. The film pins much of its story on their romance, a match met with judgment from the community and strong displeasure from Tommy’s mother, Nancy (Therese Bradley). Fortunately, there is plenty of chemistry between Lowden and the winsome Lovibond, and their scenes of courtship both lighten the tone and earn our emotional investment., Connery and his crew, including director of photography Gary Shaw, production designer James Lapsley and costume designer Rhonda Russell, richly evoke the harsh beauty of Scotland, while warmly re-creating the style and manners of the period. There’s a certain “Chariots of Fire”-like reverence for all things golf and Scottish, but the woolly courses, a far cry from the manicured fairways of today, and comparatively crude implements used by the players, provide an earthy balance., However, “Tommy’s Honour’s” greatest strength turns out to be its primary weakness, as well. It’s surprisingly affecting, but there’s a tendency to telegraph these pivotal emotional moments that in a way lessens their effect.  It’s a tribute to the film’s overall craft,  and especially its cast, that  it’s as much a winner as it is.
Barely five minutes have elapsed in “The Fate of the Furious” before Michelle Rodriguez mutters, “It’s gonna be a bomb.” She is not talking about the movie (duh), but rather about a 1953 Chevy Fleetline whose hunkajunk engine Vin Diesel has cleverly souped up — though it might be more accurate to say he’s turned it into a dynamite stick on wheels — using little more than his wits, his muscles and the tab of a Coke can. You’ve got to admire that last part: It’s a plot point, a product placement and a well-timed Pepsi dig rolled into one., It’s no spoiler to report that the Fleetline goes up in flames up after a hilariously overblown street race (it would be a spoiler to report that it doesn’t), shortly before flying through the air and crashing into the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Havana. “The Fate of the Furious” is one of the first Hollywood productions to shoot in Cuba since the easing of diplomatic relations with the U.S. in 2014, which means that, for all its fun-in-the-sun frivolity, the movie inevitably reflects something about the political and economic moment that produced it., It is many other things too: the eighth chapter in an improbably successful 16-year-old blockbuster franchise, a 2-hour, 15-minute  earplug commercial, an argument for the law of diminishing returns and the latest proof, as if proof were needed, that diversity sells. Years before #OscarsSoWhite became the depressing industry catchphrase, the “Fast &amp; Furious” movies were the glorious standard-bearer for multiplex multiculturalism, distinguished by an ever-shifting but fully integrated ensemble and a willingness to tap directors of color like John Singleton, Justin Lin and James Wan., Vin Diesel is a tough guy tender enough to remember the last time he cried. Sitting in an exquisitely upholstered chair of a Beverly Hills hotel suite discussing his “dark” turn in the latest “Fast &amp; Furious” film, he describes an emotional episode that transpired two days before, a familiar glint..., Vin Diesel is a tough guy tender enough to remember the last time he cried. Sitting in an exquisitely upholstered chair of a Beverly Hills hotel suite discussing his “dark” turn in the latest “Fast &amp; Furious” film, he describes an emotional episode that transpired two days before, a familiar glint..., The latest filmmaker to join their ranks is F. Gary Gray, who recently directed “Straight Outta Compton” but whose most salient credit is his terrifically entertaining 2003 remake of “The Italian Job.” He has imported a few key elements from that automotive heist caper, though arguably too little of its sleek, snazzy elegance and too much Charlize Theron (four words I never thought I’d write)., With some clever cross-branding and better writing, we could have ended up with “The Fast and the Furiosa.” Instead we have Cipher (Theron), a seductive cyber-terrorist with blond dreadlocks, a red-bearded henchman (“Game of Thrones” actor Kristofer Hivju), and a drearily familiar code of winner-takes-all nihilism., Cipher must have some mighty powerful leverage over Diesel’s Dom Toretto, who suddenly decides to help her procure a stash of nuclear weapons that could  trigger World War III, abandoning his new bride, Letty (Rodriguez), and their affectionate gang of globe-trotting gearheads in the process. That isn’t at all like Dom, who has made it clear that his favorite “F” word isn’t “fast” or “furious” but “family.” Nor, come to think of it, is it much like Diesel, who has seldom shown the inclination — or, frankly, the talent — to cloak his character’s motives in mystery., His costars, for their part, are largely content to stay in the safe and familiar lanes plotted out for them in Chris Morgan’s script. Those bickering sidemen Roman (Tyrese Gibson) and Tej (Chris “Ludacris” Bridges) spend most of their time competing for the affections of ace hacker Ramsey (Nathalie Emmanuel, another “Game of Thrones” regular). Kurt Russell returns as a covert government operative, this time with Scott Eastwood in tow as his annoying protégé. And hey look, there’s Helen Mirren in a few “hey look, there’s Helen Mirren” scenes., Naturally, Dwayne Johnson is back as Diplomatic Security Service agent Luke Hobbs, who reluctantly pulls himself away from coaching his daughter’s soccer team to resume the thrill of the chase. But not even a gratuitously bone-crunching prison-break sequence — pitting him against his old nemesis Deckard Shaw (Jason Statham) and allowing for some choice one-liners of the “I will beat your ass like a Cherokee drum” variety — can quite offset the feeling that the thrill is gone., Ever since Dom and Hobbs went mano a mano in “Fast Five,” Diesel and Johnson have often seemed locked in a private competition of their own, as if to see who can imitate the world’s most expressive tree trunk. The two stars share precious little screen time here, and whether there’s any truth to the rumors of a behind-the-scenes “Furious” feud, that disconnect — the sense that the actors might as well have been digitally inserted alongside each other, for all the chemistry they achieve — spreads through the ensemble like a bad case of rust., You may well argue that chemistry — and, for that matter, acting — is beside the point when it comes to some of the more outlandishly incoherent set pieces in “The Fate of the Furious,” and you wouldn’t be entirely wrong. At one point Cipher turns virtually every car in Manhattan into a self-driving weapon, and then, just for kicks, sends about 50 of them careening out of an upper-story parking structure, in what may be the cinema’s first scene of vehicular mass suicide., And even that feels like a warm-up act — or perhaps a cool-down act — for the climactic showdown in freezing-cold Russia (actually played by Iceland), where a parade of speeding cars and exploding trucks are upstaged by a wayward submarine. No spluttering Vladimir Putin reaction shots are in store, alas, though given the movie’s level of anything-goes insanity (or is it indifference?), they would hardly have felt out of place., All this testifies, I suppose, to the ongoing durability of a franchise that started out in 2001 as little more than hot rods and cheap thrills, before unexpectedly hitting its creative and commercial stride a few movies later. But after the ultra-stylish detour of “The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift,” the unfiltered action-movie exhilaration of “Fast Five” and the emotional high of “Furious 7,” with its moving elegy for the late Paul Walker, the series seems to have at last entered its frustrating, decadent, spinning-its-wheels phase., The theme of “The Fate of the Furious” — not to be missed among all the hot babes, fast cars, private planes and big bangs — is betrayal, and not just because Dom suddenly goes rogue. The sudden recasting of murderous bad guy Deckard as a good guy may be a necessary expedient from a narrative point of view, and it does yield a pretty amusing homage to John Woo’s classic “Hard Boiled.”, But it is also likely to induce whiplash, and not the good kind, for those fans who have invested something of themselves in this series, enjoying its utter lack of pretension while taking its emotional core  seriously. “The Fate of the Furious” isn’t going to bomb, to be sure. But it may be the first movie to see all those hard-earned sentiments about family loyalty blow up in its face.
Every August, a few weeks before the Venice and Toronto film festivals roll out their red carpets and awards contenders, audiences descend on the Swiss town of Locarno for an 11-day cinematic banquet that has become prized for its formal innovation, its aesthetic adventurousness and its appeal to hard-core cinephiles., Often resistant to narrative convention or easy genre classification, these are movies that, for the most part, rarely travel to Los Angeles art-house venues — a reality that speaks to the languishing state of independent and foreign-language film distribution in the U.S., but also to a neglected L.A. film culture that often feels more hindered than helped by its proximity to Hollywood., Locarno in Los Angeles, an adventurous sampler of films from the 2016 edition of the festival, represents a hopeful reversal of this trend. Curated by the L.A.-based critics Jordan Cronk and Robert Koehler, and presented at the Downtown Independent, this weekend-long program of 10 features and five shorts offers a jolting antidote to the mid-spring blockbuster blues, as well as a welcome reminder that cinema isn’t just a global medium; at times, it can be downright otherworldly., The program gets off to a pleasing start on Friday night with “Hermia &amp; Helena,” the latest Shakespearean riff from the New York-based Argentine director Matías Piñeiro. Just as his earlier works “The Princess of France” and “Viola” respectively riffed on “Love’s Labour’s Lost” and “Twelfth Night,” the new movie hinges loosely on “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” which Camila (Agustina Muñoz), a Buenos Aires theater director who has recently relocated to the Big Apple, is attempting to translate into Spanish., The play’s intricate roundelay of romantic complications and mistaken identities is  loosely reproduced in Piñeiro’s clever shuffling of characters, time frames and locations. “Hermia &amp; Helena” toggles restlessly between New York and Buenos Aires, gives Camila an alter ego in the form of another young woman, Carmen (María Villar), and at times even superimposes two establishing shots in the same frame — a ghostly, dissolve-like effect that underscores the poignant sense of homesickness at the heart of the story., One of the program’s most accessible titles is the centerpiece selection, “Rat Film,” Theo Anthony’s brilliant, uncategorizable documentary on the notoriously large rodent population in his native Baltimore. The human implications of this phenomenon, especially as regards the city’s long history of racial segregation and substandard living conditions for African Americans, are among the many threads freely at play in this mind-expanding experiment, which leaves you regarding both species in a slightly different light., Not quite as brisk or playful is the festival’s Sunday closing-night selection, “Scarred Hearts,” a slow-burning 1930s-set hospital drama that finds the Romanian writer-director Radu Jude veering away from the epic Western thrills of his 2016 feature, “Aferim!” If relentless action is more your speed, you might consider subjecting yourself to Tetsuya Mariko’s brutal, unsparing anti-thriller “Distraction Babies,” about a young Japanese sociopath (Yuya Yagira) who likes nothing more than pummeling random strangers and getting pummeled himself in return., Eduardo Williams’ “The Human Surge” is a mysterious and poetic triptych that wanders from Argentina to Mozambique to the Philippines, finding a wondrously imaginative transition each time. In each new environment the film alights on a different group of young people, observing their comings, goings and random hangouts with an eye that feels at once alert and oddly dispassionate. Your attention may flag at times — even the movie’s seems to — but the roving, unimpeded movement of the camera keeps you watching., By contrast, the camera stays mostly still in “All the Cities of the North,” a quietly immersive debut feature from  Yugoslavian director Dane Komljen, which follows two men who have set up camp in an abandoned, dilapidated hotel complex somewhere in southern Montenegro. With its expressive use of landscapes (both natural and man-made) and its relaxed, middle-of-nowhere intimacy, this is a beautifully unhurried picture that, like many of the best offerings at Locarno in Los Angeles, seems less interested in telling you a simple story than in recalibrating your internal rhythms. You should let it.
The best animated films inspire wonder in the minds of audiences, but the family movie “Spark: A Space Tail”  creates only incredulity. One questions how a movie this ill-conceived even got made, and how writer-director Aaron Woodley recruited a voice cast that includes talent like Susan Sarandon, Patrick Stewart and Hilary Swank., Teenage space chimpanzee Spark (Jace Norman of Nick’s “Henry Danger”) is eager to escape the planetary shard where he has been raised by his friends fox Vix (Jessica Biel) and warthog Chunk (Rob deLeeuw) since the destruction of his planet 13 years earlier. Spark sneaks out on an adventure, but it pits him against the evil Zhong (Alan C. Peterson), the ape responsible for his community’s plight., The space setting offers opportunity for some nice work with depth as heroes zoom and dive between planetary shards (without the apparent need to breathe air), and the backgrounds are nicely detailed. However, the character design falls short of what audiences have come to expect, showing little texture and even less emotion in the faces of Spark, Vix and the other animals on-screen., Kids may enjoy some of the humor and the presence of cute space roaches (seriously), but parents will have little patience for the nonsensical script. “Spark” should earn points for originality, but it never invests in establishing its world or its characters in a way that engages viewers.
Director Jenny Gage weaves a gorgeous, lyrical piece of nonfiction cinema out of intimate confessions and urban landscapes in the documentary “All This Panic.” The film is a tone poem, a watercolor portrait, a snapshot of youth following the lives of a group of teenage girls growing up in Brooklyn., Aesthetically, the film looks and feels like a narrative indie movie, but the girls on screen are all too real, squabbling with their siblings, navigating the tricky transitions into sex, drugs and drinking, all while clawing out a personal identity for themselves., In the high-stakes world of teenagers, the stakes are elevated when those teens have all of New York City at their feet. The girls seem impossibly young, and at times, impossibly wise beyond their years, wrestling with family issues, mental health, money, sexuality, death and hardest of all, life itself., Gage and cinematographer Tom Betterton were granted incredible access to the lives of these girls and respect that trust. They never shy away from the tough or unflattering moments, and capture many vulnerable and soul-bearing moments. The dreams and insecurities and struggles of these girls are specific, and so universal. “All This Panic” is a deeply felt tribute to youth but also to growing up; it’s a time capsule of a fleeting, fragile moment when angst is mixed with beauty and everything seems ripe with potential.
Unless you’re a jazz aficionado or a denizen of New York’s classier nightclubs and society functions, you may not be familiar with the work of Vince Giordano — even though the bandleader and music archivist has been one of the most in-demand early 20th century Americana revivalists for decades., Dave Davidson and Amber Edwards’ documentary “Vince Giordano: There’s a Future in the Past” is a fine introduction to a musician so respected that filmmakers like Woody Allen and Martin Scorsese have called on him to help re-create the sounds of the ’20s and ’30s in their period pictures. Always, Giordano strives to transport audiences of today into another world., Davidson and Edwards reveal what it takes to be a working musician, making a living in the 2010s with songs nearly a century old. From the outside, Giordano looks successful. But he still sweats finding regular gigs for his big band, and he’s still schlepping instruments and an extensive collection of vintage sheet music around the country., Giordano’s combo is road-tested, bringing vitality and showmanship to moldy oldies. “There’s a Future in the Past” is equally balanced between its smoking-hot live performances, interviews and day-in-the-life footage., There’s less in the film about why it matters to keep history alive, instead of creating something new. But by showing the exhausting diligence that goes into moments of pure transcendent joy onstage, this doc should make new fans for Giordano’s living museum.
As a title, “A Woman, A Part” both reveals and obfuscates the themes of the film, written and directed by  Elisabeth Subrin. Maggie Siff stars as Anna, a TV actress on the verge of a breakthrough or a breakdown; a woman who is very unhappy with that specific part., Ready to throw in the towel on her acting career, she beats a hasty retreat out of L.A., returning to her old apartment in New York and reconnecting with her long-lost friends and theater collaborators, Isaac (John Ortiz) and Kate (Cara Seymour). The film itself is not just about one woman and one part, but about three people, grappling with their pasts, presents and futures, and provides three fantastic parts for three incredible actors. , There is also a part for Anna in Isaac’s new play that is uncomfortably familiar and it reopens old wounds, reveals intentions and blows the lid off long-repressed confrontations., The film is an astute character study that is analytical but never unemotional. Subrin has a background in experimental shorts and video art, and moments of surreality pepper “A Woman, A Part” but never eclipse the thrust of the characters’ journey. Siff is  wonderful, but Ortiz and Seymour nearly steal the movie out from under her. For Subrin, it’s not just a promising entry into the world of narrative filmmaking but already a fine achievement.
“Mission Control: The Unsung Heroes of Apollo” is a well-crafted, revealing British documentary reuniting the surviving team members entrusted with safely taking astronauts to the moon and back. Although these hidden figures are exclusively male and almost entirely Caucasian, there’s still much to find uplifting., In exchange for their $6,770 starting salaries, those who first “manned” the consuls would often work 35 hours straight under extreme pressure, especially when they had to address the “Houston, we’ve had a problem” distress call from the Apollo 13 crew., Filmmaker David Fairhead, who edited 2016’s “The Last Man on the Moon,” profiling the late Gene Cernan, creates a vivid atmosphere (chain-smoking seemed to part of the job description) combining a remarkable amount of archival footage with audio recordings and computer simulations., But it’s those insightful contemporary interviews with the likes of Cernan and Jim Lovell, and, especially Chris Kraft, acknowledged as the creator of Mission Control, and Gene Kranz (played by Ed Harris in Ron Howard’s “Apollo 13”), who still favors military crew cuts, that effectively hit home., There’s something undeniably moving about seeing the reunified flight directors and controllers, most now in their 80s and 90s, seated at their original command posts, reflecting on their shared triumphs and tragedies while acknowledging the toll all those stress-filled hours would often take on their family life.
How David Lynch’s early days as a boundaries-free artist led to the making of his groundbreaking debut feature, 1977’s “Eraserhead,” is tracked with deliberate introspection in the well-crafted documentary “David Lynch: The Art Life.”, Anyone looking for a fun, revealing, movie-career survey á la 2016’s “De Palma” will be disappointed. “The Art Life” is fairly sober stuff and as elliptical as Lynch’s signature output., The documentary’s directors, Jon Nguyen, Rick Barnes and Olivia Neergaard-Holm, who collaborated on 2007’s “Lynch,” reconstruct the auteur’s story using clips from three years’ worth of recorded interviews with Lynch, archival family photos and footage, and shots of Lynch thinking, smoking, hanging with toddler daughter Lula, and creating unexamined, head-scratching art around his Hollywood Hills home., En route, Lynch recollects his relatively happy, itinerant childhood; youthful creative leanings, friendship with mentor-painter Bushnell Keeler, time at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, marriage to first wife Peggy (with whom he had a daughter, future filmmaker Jennifer), first short films, and the American Film Institute grant that helped fund “Eraserhead,” a movie that took five years to finish but paved the way for Lynch’s celebrated career., No one else weighs in on Lynch here — it’s all him, all the time. And, although chatty, he’s not the warmest or most engaging presence. Still, Lynch devotees should dig this respectful, offbeat portrait.
In “Little Boxes,” a city-dwelling family finds itself  transplanted to suburbia, ill-equipped to handle the culture shock. Melanie Lynskey and Nelsan Ellis play Gina and Mack, a married couple — she’s a photographer, he’s a writer — and parents to the quietly nerdy Clark (Armani Jackson). Their multicultural life in Brooklyn is lovingly sketched out in an opening sequence., Though it looks Utopian, Gina, desiring stability and health insurance, has taken a job at a college in a small town in Washington state. Soon the family members find themselves in their huge new house, waiting on their moving truck, getting to know their new neighbors and colleagues., Written by Annie J. Howell and directed by Rob Meyer, “Little Boxes” is almost anthropological in its dissection of the cultural quirks of suburban life. There is an unsettling fixation on race that pervades every new interaction with the interracial family. While Mack is profiled by his new neighbors, Clark’s new classmates are fascinated by the diversity he brings to their lily-white burg. The racial discourse is never pushed far enough to be humorous or biting — just awkward. Lynskey, Ellis, and Jackson are charming enough to buoy this lightly dramatic tale, but with a laid-back energy the stakes are never quite high enough. “Little Boxes” offers tame social commentary in a pleasant package.
A teen comedy for the Tumblr generation, “The Outcasts” groups students according to what they like, including canceled sci-fi show “Firefly,” the value of pi and, surprisingly, “The 48 Laws of Power.” The script from Dominique Ferrari and Suzanne Wrubel gets enjoyably specific when delving into its characters’ quirks, though some of the references seem dated., High school seniors Jodi (Victoria Justice) and Mindy (Eden Sher) are the unpopular students of the title, with their respective affection for Tina Fey and the periodic table making them targets of the cool kids. After unsuccessfully trying for a truce with the bullies, Jodi and Mindy realize that if all of the outcasts band together, they will outnumber the high school royalty. With the help of a Girl Scout (Katie Chang), a would-be leader (Ashley Rickards), a feminist (Jazmyn Richardson) and nerds of various stripes, the best friends fight back., Frequently fun and generally harmless, “The Outcasts” doesn’t bring anything new to the teen comedy, but that’s the nice thing about the sub-genre for its viewers. Given their age, its target audience may not realize that the cinematic battle between popular and unpopular students has been going on since before they were born. This movie won’t endure like “Mean Girls,” “Clueless” or “The Breakfast Club,” but it likely won’t cause too many eye rolls either.
Many a nostril flares in “The Mason Brothers,” a talky, drawn-out crime thriller that’s big on posturing but comes up empty in the delivery of convincing dramatic goods., After their baby brother, Orion (Michael Whelan), is killed during a downtown L.A. heist, bank-robbing siblings Ren (the film’s writer and director, Keith Sutliff) and hot-headed Jesse (Brandon Pearson), along with fellow accomplice Gage (Matthew Webb), have good reason to believe they were set up, eliciting the services of a bounty hunter (Tim Park) to track down the culprits., Those in the market for a good-old-fashioned, adrenaline-soaked vengeance yarn will have to look elsewhere — in lieu of any actual action or, at the very least, a sense of mounting tension, the disgruntled Mason boys occupy most of the film’s pointlessly prolonged sequences sitting around offering stiff readings of stiffer dialogue pertaining to plotting their next move., By the time they get around to exacting some sort of retribution, the stagy execution of their preferred methods of torture will likely elicit more laughter than shivers., In his first feature effort, Sutliff, who also takes a production design and shared casting credit, may have been aiming for classic Hollywood noir, but this lifeless serving of soggy pulp packs all the gritty authenticity of a gummy vitamin.
Disneynature's "Born In China" was released in theaters on April 21, 2017., "Born in China" is the latest installment in the "Disneynature" documentary series. It's "Planet Earth" aimed at younger audiences, but any nature lovers can find enjoyment here, especially in the stunning cinematography. While other installments have focused on specific species and eco-systems, "Born in China," directed by Lu Chuan, gets up close and personal with some of the unique species found in China — pandas, snow leopards, cranes, Chiru antelope and golden monkeys. Chuan's team follows these incredible animals through the seasons and throughout the circle of life while incorporating Chinese spiritual beliefs about life and death., John Krasinski does his best Sir David Attenborough as the narrator of "Born in China," though he doesn't achieve that singular mix of gravitas and cheeky wit that the "Life" and "Planet Earth" legend brings to those classic nature documentaries. Krasinski's vocal stylings are perfectly homey and serviceable for the task of guiding us through the lives of these special animals. The footage captured is breathtaking for its access and intimacy to these incredible creatures. A few outtakes during the credits offer a look inside the production process, which involves both stationary secret cameras attached to rocks and the like, as well as production crews trekking out into the wilderness to capture images. The small taste of behind-the-scenes information is so fascinating that you'd almost want to watch an entire documentary just about this process., The drama captured is remarkable, from a territorial snow leopard standoff to the first steps of a baby panda and the antics of a group of young golden monkeys — though it's clear that some of these interactions have been coaxed together by creative editors for maximum narrative enjoyment. The editors weave stories worthy of any Disney classic — Tao Tao the golden monkey is shunned by his family after the arrival of his baby sister, but his peers, the Lost Boys, don't offer much solace either. Dawa the snow leopard hunts ferociously to provide for her cubs, but is it enough? Ya Ya the panda carefully guides her baby, Mei Mei, through the process of growing up., The panda cub Mei Mei in "Born in China." , The panda cub Mei Mei in "Born in China." , As deliciously cute and cuddly as Mei Mei and Ya Ya are, the breakout stars are definitely the golden monkeys. These curious creatures sport bright marigold fur and bluish-gray faces with huge expressive eyes. Their expressions and gestures are startlingly human, and there's plenty of interpersonal and group drama to sustain their storyline, as Tao Tao leaves the family fold and returns after saving his baby sister from a hawk. The Disneynature films are always released close to Earth Day and strive to educate audiences about the importance of preserving nature. A message before the screening announced that seeing the film opening weekend would help raise funds for saving these animals. But as a nature film, "Born in China" stays resolutely within the confines of its region and topic. From watching the film, one wouldn't know if these animals were endangered or threatened by manmade development, predators or climate change. The message stays firmly on spiritual questions about the circle of life, but doesn't educate or leave the audience with a call to action about how to personally act to protect these animals, and that feels like a missed opportunity.
The child is very much father to the man in "Staying Vertical," a serenely nutty cinematic pastoral that unfolds at the crossroads of life and death, freedom and responsibility, this world and the next. The film follows a screenwriter in his 30s named Leo (Damien Bonnard) into the open countryside, where he shacks up with a shepherdess, has a baby boy and soon finds himself dealing with much more than just a crippling case of writer's block., The movie, for its part, hardly wants for creative inspiration. You could probably imagine a much straighter (in every sense) version of this story — one that doesn't feature quite as many growling wolves, eccentric sexual configurations and scenes of botanical electrode therapy., But really, where would be the fun in that? Writer-director Alain Guiraudie has a gift for burrowing his way into the human soul by way of the libido, and he works in a searching, serio-comic style that refuses to separate life's wildest extremes into neat, narratively expedient compartments. With "Staying Vertical," he has made the sort of movie that is often described as "not knowing what kind of film it wants to be" — a dismissal that, in this case, should instead be considered high praise. Guiraudie came to international prominence with his 2013 Cannes Film Festival sensation "Stranger by the Lake," a wickedly seductive thriller that observed the comings and goings at a secluded gay cruising spot with both erotic heat and chilly analytical rigor. To say that "Staying Vertical" touches on some of the same preoccupations — the great outdoors, the dark side of desire, manhood and its discontents — is at once perfectly true and faintly misleading. What it lacks in its predecessor's exacting formal control, the new movie more than makes up for in its capacity to surprise. It could be titled "Stranger by the Minute.", It begins simply enough. Leo finds himself traveling among the windswept wilds of southwestern France (beautifully photographed by Claire Mathon), searching for writerly inspiration and fascinated by the wolves that inhabit the region. He falls into bed with a rural woman named Marie (India Hair), who oversees a flock of sheep with her gruff dad, Jean-Louis (Raphaël Thiéry), and her two young sons. She soon gives birth to a third, an event that Guiraudie observes in unsparingly gooey detail — one of several full-frontal close-ups that, under the camera's unflinching gaze, seem to evoke Gustave Courbet's famous nude, "The Origin of the World.", But Marie, the only female character of any stature, soon recedes from the picture, moving to the city with her two older sons and leaving Leo to care for their infant alone. Leo continues to drift, putting off the screenplay he's writing and dragging his son along from scene to scene with an odd mix of affection and carelessness., He also pays regular visits to a nearby cottage where Marcel (Christian Bouillette), a grouchy old shut-in who likes to blast Pink Floyd and yell anti-gay slurs at his houseguest, a sullen young man named Yoan (Basile Meilleurat). Their love-hate codependency seems forever on the brink of shifting into outright homoerotic desire, and it finds a strange echo in Leo's own continually evolving relationship with Jean-Louis., By the time Leo gets into a canoe and paddles his way downriver in search of a marsh-dwelling plant therapist (Laure Calamy), "Staying Vertical" has taken on the demented illogic and inexplicable clarity of a dream. Not the kind of dream that teems with bold, hallucinatory imagery, but rather the kind that thrives on steadily escalating degrees of narrative derangement, in which even the story's weirdest formulations seem rooted in the banality of the everyday., Characters disappear at random only to reemerge in strange new configurations. Traditional roles are slyly recast; people you didn't think knew each other turn out to know each other. The movie's circular, repetitive structure increasingly seems to mirror the cyclical nature of all existence. Sex is linked as closely to death as it is to life, l'origin du monde and la petite mort rolled into one., Its title a sly reference to what distinguishes men from beasts, "Staying Vertical" hinges on the tension between primal instincts and socially proscribed behavior. Guiraudie isn't just trying to decimate sexual taboos; he is also taking gently comic aim at the overly rigid roles into which people tend to lock themselves. And he has an ideal collaborator in Bonnard, the kind of actor who keeps you at a slight remove initially only to become an increasingly empathetic figure as the movie wends its way toward its strange, and strangely moving, destination., Of all the roles a man might be called on to play in the world — father, lover, protector, provider — how does he reconcile any single one with all the others? Guiraudie's crazily compassionate filmmaking creates a space for all manner of male fantasies and anxieties, however dark, shameful or grotesque, to assert themselves. And he does this without losing sight of those wolves prowling at the edges of the story — a reminder of the very real predators lying out there in wait, to say nothing of those lurking within.
Adrian Titieni plays the protagonist doctor in “Graduation.”, A boy throws a stone at another boy on a playground. While the incident is not medically serious, it troubles the man watching over the unhappy perpetrator. That's no way to behave, the man, a doctor, says. "So how should I behave?" the boy replies., He doesn't get much of an answer, but it's the key question for every character in writer-director Cristian Mungiu's "Graduation," a beautifully spun and morally searching tale of interlocking compromises. Set in a post-communist Transylvanian mountain town, where corruption floats in the air like a permanent morning haze, Mungiu's film arrives in a limited commercial run at a time when a lot of very fine new films have come out to play. If not quite as sharp as Mungiu's "4 Months, 3 Weeks, 2 Days" or "Beyond the Hills," "Graduation" nonetheless offers sharp, steady insights into precarious human conditions hardly limited to Romania after Ceausescu., The doctor protagonist is Romeo (Adrian Titieni, perfectly modulating his degrees of frustration and anger and self-loathing). For a year or so he has been stepping out on his depressive wife (Lia Bugnar) with the mother (Malina Manovici) of the young boy. The doctor and his wife fled Romania years earlier but returned in 1991, we learn, with the hope of improving life in his homeland. Now all hopes are pinned on their bright, hardworking teenage daughter (Maria Dragus), who's on the verge of getting out herself, by way of a Cambridge University scholarship. She need only pass a final exam. Off-screen, in the first few minutes of "Graduation," the daughter is assaulted on the way to school. With her arm in a cast, and her nerves badly shaken, suddenly a routine final test becomes a monumental difficulty. Romeo takes action, right or wrong, in order to protect his daughter's future., From there Mungiu illustrates the fine art of one hand washing another hand, and another, and another. Romeo's police chief friend (Vlad Ivanov, Romania's poster boy for vaguely menacing figures of authority) suggests that Romeo move the city's vice mayor (Petre Ciubotaru) up a few notches on a live transplant waiting list. In exchange, the politician can pull a few strings regarding the final exam. Meantime Romeo's mistress wants her young son placed in a certain public school, one that is technically already at capacity. (Chicago Public Schools parents will find much sweat-inducing detail to relate to here.), Everybody cheats, a little or a lot. At one point, Romeo is interrogated at work by a pair of deadpan public prosecutors, one of whom says: "He who persists in illegality will probably have to pay for it." The way the actor mutters the line, the word "probably" has never seemed less probable., Like the work of Iranian writer-director Asghar Farhadi ("A Separation"), Mungiu's films are stern, carefully paced dramas of queasy compromise and evasion. Unsolved riddles persist, though here there's a touch of the schematic in their deployment. In the opening shot, a rock smashes an apartment building window. Is Romeo being stalked? Is someone on to his infidelity? The outlook here cannot escape the influence of a nation bear-trapped by its own recent history. "Graduation" may not roll around in my brain the way Mungiu's best work does, but it's consistently absorbing and well-acted, and Mungiu's camera makes even simple police station interrogations or drive-around sequences unassuming things of beauty.
Inspired by true events, "The Promise" stars Christian Bale, Oscar Isaac and Charlotte Le Bon. The Armenian Genocide is a curiously unexplored moment in our modern history, cinematically speaking. That fact alone makes director and co-writer Terry George's "The Promise" intriguing enough. Historical fiction generally has it over documentaries in inspiring mass interest, especially when actors as appealing as Oscar Isaac, Christian Bale and Charlotte Le Bon are involved., And indeed, "The Promise" is a sprawling and handsome epic set around the extermination of 1.5 million Armenians in Ottoman Turkey. But despite the best of intentions, the film fails to properly explain and contextualize both what led to that disgraceful episode, which Turkey to this day denies, and why it escalated as it did. Instead, "The Promise" chooses to focus in on an unsympathetic love triangle that manages to trivialize the film overall., The goal, as always, is to personalize the events that are too big and too devastating to look at as a whole — to make it about the lives interrupted, cut short and thrown into turmoil because of external forces. Thus we're given the character Michael Boghosian (Isaac), an Armenian medical student from a small village in Southern Turkey who uses his fiancée's dowry to study modern medicine in Constantinople. Michael isn't in love with his fiancée (Angela Sarafyan), but such is life in Siroun where marriages are arranged and he doesn't have any other choice. He kisses her goodbye and heads off to the big city, promising to return in just a few years., Constantinople is an oasis of temptation for Michael, who essentially falls for the first woman he sees. The beguiling Ana (Le Bon) is a cosmopolitan beauty and intellectual. She lived in Paris for years. She exudes ethereal confidence. And she's an Armenian from around his hometown. Ana also happens to be in a long-term relationship with Chris Myers (Bale), an Associated Press reporter who we're told drinks too much., While Michael is enjoying the city life and lusting after Ana, though, things are devolving around him. It's 1914 and vague signs of war are emerging. Things go on as normal for a little while — there are German soldiers at the parties now and battleships in the harbor and a heightened sense that some Turks are anti-Armenian. And then Constantinople's Armenian intellectuals start getting arrested and taken away. To where is unclear. To fight? To prison camps? To be executed?, The intention, likely, is to put the viewer on the blurry ground level with Michael and Ana, who see their world turned upside down so suddenly that of course there would be confusion. Explanation and insight is hardly a priority when survival is the goal. But that's where Bale's Chris Myers should have been more useful., This image released by Open Road Films shows Charlotte Le Bon, from left, Oscar Isaac and Christian Bale in a scene from "The Promise.", This image released by Open Road Films shows Charlotte Le Bon, from left, Oscar Isaac and Christian Bale in a scene from "The Promise.", To the film's credit, he does take us early on to distant villages to witness townspeople being rounded up and walked through the desert. Women and children are executed without hesitation and, when Chris is spotted in the distance, soldiers take off after him. It's clear they don't want people seeing what they're doing. He chimes in occasionally with helpful exposition as he's dictating articles, and yet, it's a wonder whether anyone who knows little about the events will actually be able to track what's going on in a meaningful way., "The Promise" is infinitely more interested in the triangle, dropping the three leads into convenient situations to heighten the will they/won't they/can they/should they drama, which, frankly, becomes increasingly unsympathetic as the situation around them becomes more dire., It's unfair to critique such an utterly sincere film that does contain some riveting action and acting and even might inspire some to learn more about this moment in history, but unfortunately, the story just doesn't live up to its grand ambitions.
In the opening moments of "Frantz," the latest intricately layered mystery from the French writer-director François Ozon, a German woman named Anna (Paula Beer) visits the grave of her fiancé, a soldier recently slain in the trenches of World War I. You can sense the war's immense reach in a few fleeting details — a man who whistles in Anna's direction is missing an arm — but also in the eerie quiet that has descended on the town's cobbled streets and in the somber cast of the movie's black-and-white images., If you happen to have seen Ernst Lubitsch's "Broken Lullaby," the 1932 antiwar drama on which this new film is based, you might also sense something more: a curious and telling shift in perspective. Lubitsch's film, adapted from a play by Maurice Rostand, was a rare message picture from a director celebrated for his exquisite comic touch, unfolded through the eyes of a French veteran making an unexpected visit to the grieving loved ones of a dead German soldier., "Frantz" retains the earlier film's central premise and pacifist themes. A Parisian musician named Adrien Rivoire (Pierre Niney) has come to pay his respects to Dr. Hoffmeister (Ernst Stötzner) and his wife, Magda (Marie Gruber), and to share his memories of their fallen son, Frantz (played by Anton von Lucke in flashbacks). But this time, the story's moral and dramatic fulcrum is Anna, whose loving, protective attitude toward the Hoffmeisters, whom she regards as her own parents, is matched by her intense curiosity about this stranger in their midst., The presence of a Frenchman in Germany so soon after the Great War does not go unremarked upon by Dr. Hoffmeister, who receives Adrien coldly at first, or by the glowering locals — one of whom, Kreutz (Johann von Bülow), wants to marry Anna himself. Adrien, for his part, is sympathetic but not entirely above suspicion. His recollections of many happy hours spent with Frantz in Paris before the war, visiting museums and playing the violin together, bring the Hoffmeisters no small measure of solace. But his sad eyes and halting, fearful demeanor seem to tell a darker, more unsettling story., That story will not be revealed here, though Ozon, a master of misdirection and one of French cinema's most prolific chroniclers of gay desire, delights in raising the sort of romantic possibilities that are easier for an audience to countenance now than they were in 1919. More than once, "Frantz" hints that it will reveal itself as a homoerotic reworking of "Broken Lullaby." But Ozon has something simpler and no less intriguing up his sleeve., One of the director's chief aims here — articulated with rueful clarity by Stötzner's sober-minded doctor — is to eliminate the distractions of nationalism and politics, and to remind his characters and his audience of the unimaginable suffering endured on both sides of the conflict. Not for nothing has Ozon rechristened the dead German soldier "Frantz," playfully evoking both his own name, François, and the nation of France itself: It's as if he were suggesting that the responsibility for a man's death does not always belong to his killer alone., At one point, Ozon goes so far as to deconstruct a famous scene from "Casablanca," investing a moment of unambiguous moral triumph with undercurrents of menace and dread. By this point, "Frantz" has shaken off the last vestiges of "Broken Lullaby" and plunged forward in an entirely new narrative direction, one that begins when Anna boards a train for France and sets out to find answers of her own., In doing so, she becomes the latest in a line of richly conflicted Ozon heroines — the women played by Charlotte Rampling in "Under the Sand" and Catherine Deneuve in "Potiche" come especially to mind — forced to confront impossible situations, usually set in motion by the men in their lives. Anna, reeling from devastation and disbelief to a startling rush of desire, doesn't know what either the past or the future holds, but she rises to the occasion with a bracing mix of clever calculation and pure instinct., Something similar might be said of Ozon, whose work often attempts — not always successfully, but always impressively — to bridge the gap between style and feeling, between his flair for formal trickery and his desire to usher the viewer into a realm of unbridled emotion. In perhaps his most Ozonian gesture, he occasionally floods cinematographer Pascal Marti's monochrome palette with a sudden infusion of warm color, usually to signal a flashback to happier times. These moments are sometimes dreams, sometimes memories and sometimes beautiful lies, which is very much to the director's point., One of the key questions he's asking here is about the moral necessity of telling a falsehood, particularly when the need to shield those already in mourning from further pain becomes its own moral imperative. "Frantz" achieves its own version of this paradox. It is a cunningly crafted fiction, full of visual artifice and narrative sleight-of-hand, that by the end could hardly feel more sincere.
Vin Diesel and crew are back for the previously titled "Furious 8," now being released as "The Fate of the Furious.", Like "Beauty and the Beast," "The Boss Baby" and "The Bad and the Beautiful," "The Fate of the Furious" features a title in which two key words share the same first letter. That's one of the most interesting things about it. Adjust your expectations accordingly., This is the eighth in the franchise, which began with a relatively modest LA street-racing movie in 2001. The film just prior to the new one, "Furious 7," had a production budget of somewhere between $200 million and $250 million, and it was scaled like a berserk Bond film. Thanks to director James Wan and the cast, a lot of it worked. It was like playing Trackmania Turbo for two hours and 20 minutes, with a few pit stops for reminders of the importance of family., It made $1.5 billion, which ensured the next film in the series would take things further into the realm of the huge and the stupid but, with luck and a little wit, good stupid, not stupid stupid., "The Fate of the Furious" illustrates the limits and hazards of multigenre blockbuster engineering. For an hour, director F. Gary Gray's pileup of gravity-free drag racing, supercool cyberterrorism, vehicular Ice Capades and World War III prevention program stays on the side of the good (or good enough) stupid. It's ridiculous but fun, as it careens from Havana to Berlin and icy, terrorist-ridden Russia played by Iceland, and a spit-ton of medium-grade digital effects., But the second hour gets to be a real drag, and not the racing kind. Charlize Theron, glaring the glare of the truly mad and slightly bored, portrays the cyberloon who hijacks a nuclear submarine. If you babies are gonna whine about spoiler alerts, well, the sub's in the trailers. By that point in "The Fate of the Furious," the apocalyptic scale of the action runs out of tricks even before Hobbs, the Dwayne Johnson character, actually says: "Sorry, guys, I've got no more tricks left." The climax feels approximately 50 years long, and it makes the audience long for a simple scene, back in a garage somewhere, where everyone's standing around in tank tops., Screenwriter Chris Morgan has written the majority of the previous "Furious" installments. In "The Fate of the Furious" Dom (Vin Diesel) and Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) are honeymooning in Cuba, where Dom runs afoul of Cipher (Theron), the blackmailing witch who forces Dom to turn against his gang and join her in her quest for world destabilization via nuclear launch codes, the three most hackneyed words in contemporary action filmmaking., The gang, led by Johnson's biceps, is all here, be they frenemies (Jason Statham's ex-assassin) or softies (Tyrese Gibson, Chris Bridges and the IT help desk whiz of everyone's dreams, Nathalie Emmanuel). Kurt Russell's back as the man in the black suit with the job assignments and the chipper, I-love-my-job line readings. "Rule No. 1: Know your audience," he says at one point, and I suppose "The Fate of the Furious" knows that much, though I wonder if the massive global fan base wouldn't mind getting this franchise back to basics after this exercise in excess., At one point Theron's villainess hacks into 1,000 midtown Manhattan vehicles, remotely, leading to cars plummeting out of fifth-story windows onto other cars, and an impromptu road rally where road rallies should not be held. The scene is tonally confusing: Is it supposed to be funny? Scary? Convincing? Or so video-gamey we're meant to enjoy the fraudulence? In many ways it's a scene emblematic of modern action movies. Just because you can design and execute such a sequence, that doesn't make it a good idea, or a satisfying series of images., These days I find it difficult to relax into a scenario involving erratic adversaries hellbent on showing the world they mean business, come what may. This is the ultimate paradox with "The Fate of the Furious." Maybe a movie needs to be this expensively ridiculous to take your mind off the news. When your own nation's fate is in the hands of some furiously unpredictable characters, even a series devoted to vehicular mayhem, one of my favorite forms of movie mayhem, has a hard time saying it's all a joke. That said: It'll make its billion. That's what it was designed to do.
"Colossal" is a colossal splitter, destined to divide audiences into "What the hell?!" and "What the hell?! I like it!" camps. But of course there's a third camp, right in between. And I'm in it., The movie, a little less wild than it sounds, stars Anne Hathaway as a woman facing an even more fearsome dilemma than her up-the-nostrils close-ups in "Les Miserables." Occasionally employed New York City freelance writer Gloria, played by Hathaway, stumbles home from another night of drunken, half-remembered revelry. Her live-in boyfriend (Dan Stevens) has had it with her antics, and has packed her stuff. She heads back to her hometown and her conveniently empty parents' house, with a vague idea of getting her act together before taking it back on the road of her life., Straight off she runs into her old pal Oscar, played by Jason Sudeikis, who clearly has been nursing a crush on Gloria for the better part of the years since elementary school. He gives her a job at his bar. After a late night with her new partners in alcohol (Tim Blake Nelson and Austin Stowell play Oscar's regulars), Gloria stumbles onto a playground at a park, goofs around and falls down, giggling., Meantime, on the other side of the world: A massive Godzilla-like kaiju is terrorizing Seoul. Somehow, according to "Colossal," that plus-sized destructive lizard is Gloria's avatar; when Hathaway's character enters the mysterious magical sandbox at the park, her stumblebum actions bring that monster to life., From "King Kong" to the original, atomic age "Godzilla" onward, monster movies are metaphors unleashed. With "Colossal," writer-director Nacho Vigalondo treats Gloria's personal demons (alcohol, controlling and/or sinister men) as an opportunity for symbolic expression on a grandly fantastic scale. With a few trims the film could be entirely different and blandly realistic — messed-up protagonist returns to hometown for a bittersweet spiritual cleanse; we've seen a few indies along those lines, for sure, even if you don't include "Garden State.", But "Colossal" wants more. Vigalondo opens with a prologue introducing the marauding lizard of Seoul, so we know it's there, embedded in the narrative, waiting for a return. Vigalondo is equally interested in what lies beneath Oscar's seemingly good-guy facade. As his relationship with Gloria becomes infected with jealousy, long-simmering rage and general bad vibes, his own avatar enters the sandbox ring., This is Vigalondo's fourth feature, and it shares some strengths with his first, the 2007 time-loop fantasy "Timecrimes." A small group of characters; a poker-faced approach to a ridiculous scenario; a protagonist internally at war; these are the building blocks of "Colossal." Hathaway is slyly funny and clearly pleased to be returning to a ground-level project along the lines of "Rachel Getting Married" (with different sorts of monsters). Sudeikis is effectively steely, though I keep waiting to be truly surprised by a single moment in a Sudeikis performance., On some level I prefer my kaiju to mix it up with larger concerns and anxieties than two ordinary people's problems. Then again, this weird marriage of indie earnestness and matter-of-fact fantasy gives "Colossal" its moderately engaging distinction.
When "Betting on Zero" was shown at the National Portrait Gallery's 346-seat auditorium as part of last year's Investigative Film Festival in Washington, D.C., half the seats to the screening of the documentary — a searing exposé arguing that the nutritional supplement company Herbalife is a Ponzi scheme — went empty. According to the festival's organizers, several employees of Herbalife's Washington lobbying firm, Heather Podesta + Partners, bought tickets in large batches, which were never used. Earlier in 2016, at the world premiere of the film at Tribeca, paid protesters handed out leaflets in an attempt to discredit the movie, according to the "Betting on Zero" website. Why all the fuss?, Because "Betting on Zero" makes such a strong and effective case that the company does, in fact, engage in shady business practices that it's likely to leave viewers in a state of Documentary High Dudgeon (that brand of cinematic outrage that is not entirely unmixed with a pleasurable feeling of moral superiority). The chief purveyor of that emotion is Bill Ackman, a hedge-fund manager with a beatific smile and a righteous anger. He has made it his mission to take down Herbalife — and to make a profit — by taking a massive "short" position in the company's stock. (Meaning that his investment firm, Pershing Square Capital Management, will make a ton of money, which he has promised to give away, only if Herbalife shares go down the toilet. Hence the film's title.), Other testimony in the film (from director Ted Braun of "Darfur Now") comes from disgruntled, and deeply in debt, former Herbalife salespeople, many of whom are Latino immigrants seeking the American Dream. This lends the film a pungent topicality., The most damning evidence comes from Herbalife corporate videos touting the company's business model, in which the most money is made not by selling its products but by recruiting others to do so. It also doesn't help that the Federal Trade Commission has charged Herbalife with "unfair, false and deceptive business practices," as an on-screen title tells us at the end of the film., There's been an additional development since the Investigative Film Festival screening, and an on-screen title has been added to the film's epilogue. Throughout "Betting on Zero," investor Carl Icahn appears as Ackman's chief adversary, arguing that Herbalife is a strong and ethical business, and putting his money where his mouth is: Icahn has invested heavily in Herbalife stock, essentially betting against Ackman by hoping the company will prosper., Just before the closing credits roll, we're shown these ominous words: "On December 21, 2016, Donald Trump named Carl Icahn special adviser to the president on regulatory reform."
There are as many different ways into a troubling documentary film subject as there are subjective definitions of a fair shake., The intriguing, bluntly confrontational "American Anarchist," opening Friday for a week's run at the Gene Siskel Film Center, speaks to both those truths. It comes from director Charlie Siskel, co-director of the excellent documentary-as-detective-story "Finding Vivian Maier." He's also the nephew of the late Tribune film critic after which the Film Center is named., Siskel's subject here is William Powell, the man who wrote the notorious 1971 best-seller "The Anarchist Cookbook" in fit of brazen revolutionary defiance when he was an angry, disillusioned 19-year-old looking to make his mark. Culled from military manuals and other sources he found, among other places, in the New York Public Library, Powell offered a wealth of practical information about how make TNT and other explosives at home. Along with the recipes, "The Anarchist Cookbook" is packed with sentiments along the lines of: "Respect can only be earned by the spilling of blood.", He never lived it down. Powell earned relatively little money from the book's popularity. When copies of what he refers to, euphemistically, as "the cookbook" started turning up in the homes and apartments of terrorists and mass murderers, from Columbine to ISIS, the author's guilt and mortification pushed him away from America. For decades he and his wife worked around the world as educators and school administrators, focusing on children with special needs., Siskel secured Powell's cooperation for a series of interviews at his home in rural France. Across four days in June 2015, the filmmaker questioned Powell on the touchy subject of the book, its bloody legacy and its author's culpability. Variously dodgy, wrenching, testy and sobering, Powell's answers often don't answer much. But Siskel keeps hammering on his subject, or target, until things get interesting., At the Venice Film Festival last year, where Siskel's documentary made its world premiere, the filmmaker told me: "I have a lot of empathy for Bill. We all make youthful mistakes. His just happened to play out in a way most of ours don't — publicly, and with serious ramifications." Siskel said that going into the project, he hoped Powell would "be willing to look back at his life and face himself, by participating in this film." Things became "adversarial," he acknowledged, which is easy enough to discern in the finished product. "But he wanted to be pushed." Powell died the year after the interviews with Siskel., "American Anarchist" has a tone that's at times not so much inquisitive as haranguing. In the years before his death Powell disowned the book, though if an author can be equal parts in denial and in confessional, that's the Powell we see here. Did "The Anarchist Cookbook" qualify as a legitimate if provocative publishing phenomenon, or was it simply an object lesson in the dangers of free speech? Did Powell take too long to speak and write about his regrets? There's a moment in "American Anarchist" when Ochan, Powell's wife, notes that "we all do dumb things. But not everyone prints them in a book.", Writers or not, we all carry our former selves inside of the people we became, and are becoming still. Siskel's movie — flawed, somewhat limited but never dull — makes Powell eat his words and then, in metaphorical terms, write the restaurant review.
"Their Finest " is a movie about making a movie, specifically a glossy propaganda film meant to bolster morale in Britain in the darkest days of the Second World War. It is also very much a movie-movie. Good-looking, finely acted, and well-told, director Lone Scherfig ("An Education") has made a charming, witty and romantic gem. It is "Shakespeare in Love" in World War II., Adapted by Gaby Chiappe from the novel "Their Finest Hour and a Half" by Lissa Evans, "Their Finest" is centered on Catrin Cole (a luminous Gemma Arterton), a copywriter hired by the government to help write the "slop," or female dialogue, for a film meant to lift the spirits of a war-weary citizenry. She's a sort of proto-Peggy Olson whose talents and thick skin get her a place at the table alongside the men (although she is, they make sure to hammer home, paid less than her male counterparts)., Catrin takes the job out of necessity — her husband Ellis (Jack Huston) is a disabled and temperamental artist whose bleak industrial landscapes aren't selling and thus not bringing in any money for their rent. Although Ellis tries to talk her out of the work, Catrin comes alive in the writer's room, sparring with the egotistical lead writer Tom Buckley (Sam Claflin) as they try to meld minds to make a compelling story out of a newspaper account of twin sisters who stole their alcoholic father's boat to rescue soldiers from Dunkirk., It's a relentlessly appealing take on the creative process, laced with humor and insight as Tom and Catrin bicker and banter about just who the hero should be (a man or the woman?), and how strictly they should adhere to the facts (not much, and, by the way, be sure to cut out the boring parts). What ends up being put into production, of course, is worlds away from reality, but there's a lovely discovery of the truth at the heart of the sisters' heroics that eventually makes it onto the screen., Caiappe and Scherfig pack the film with fun side characters and pseudo showbiz insider jokes, like when they go out to the past-his-prime actor Ambrose Hilliard (Bill Nighy, always the scene stealer) for the "corpse role" of the drunken father who's described as being a "shipwreck of a man" who is in his 60s but "looks older." Ambrose of course thinks he's being considered for the part of the hero and is stunned to realize otherwise., They're also, late in the game, instructed that they have to cast an American in the film because, in addition to British propaganda, the government now needs this film to persuade the U.S. to help out with the war efforts. The star they have in mind is a real Air Force pilot, Carl Lundbeck (Jake Lacy) — a Captain America type with golden locks and a million dollar smile. You can guess how that goes., But just because some of the beats are predictable doesn't mean that "Their Finest" is ineffective — quite the opposite. The elegantly composed script even begins to mirror the film within the film as the romantic tension grows between Catrin and Tom. Both need an ending, but what will it be?, Claflin in particular is a standout, ironically because he's been made to look less glamorous than usual. His mousy brown hair, rounded specs and layers of tweeds and wool let his real acting heft shine through. You actually believe he's the underdog. Without giving too much away, there is a beat (you'll know it when it comes) that might sour things for some audiences, but it's not enough to destroy all the good that's there. Inspiring, funny and genuinely romantic, "Their Finest" is a solid, refreshing crowd-pleaser.
The subject of "Queen of the Desert," writer-director Werner Herzog's first narrative feature since 2009, is Gertrude Bell, an Englishwoman who, in the years after World War I, used her expertise in Arab affairs and culture to help Winston Churchill negotiate the redrawn borders of the modern Middle East., Although the German filmmaker has been turning his hand almost exclusively to documentary lately, with such nonfiction meditations on deep subjects as "Lo and Behold: Reveries of the Connected World," the real-life Gertrude (here played by Nicole Kidman) makes a worthy subject for fact-based drama. Scholar, mountain-climber, fearless explorer and feminist ahead of her time, she lived a life worth letting the world in on., "This is her story," reads the on-screen title that introduces "Desert," before launching into a tale devoted — at least for the film's first half-hour — to her abortive romance with a low-level diplomat in the British Embassy in Tehran, where Gertrude had gone to get away from the stultifying mores of England. (Seems an odd choice, but there you have it.), It's another odd choice to devote so much time to a love story, in a movie that ostensibly was made to celebrate the accomplishments of its subject, and not just her love life. Yet another questionable decision is casting James Franco as that lover, Henry Cadogan. Franco looks way too young compared with Kidman, for one thing, and his British accent comes and goes, like the sirocco. (Jude Law was cast, but bowed out because of scheduling problems.), Once it gets going, "Desert" does delve into Gertrude's career, although it's not always clear what, exactly, that career was. Shots of her using surveyors' instruments and taking photographs of the desert, where she blusters, bribes and sweet-talks her way out of various pickles with belligerent Bedouins, are mixed in with way too many slow-motion shots of pretty scenery and scenes of Gertrude writing, perusing and reciting letters to and from her beloved Henry, and later to and from her replacement beloved, the very married British Army officer Charles "Richard" Doughty-Wiley (Damian Lewis)., Though Kidman delivers a workmanlike performance, the story manages to be soppy and ploddingly dull, told via a screenplay that drives home the fact that it's not really about momentous events, but momentous feelings. "My heart belongs to no one now but the desert," says Gertrude, after her father has forbidden her to marry Henry. Later, as the soon-to-be-crowned King Faisal I of Iraq (Younes El Bouab), tells Gertrude, "No one in the Western world knows the heart of the Bedouin better than you.", For a movie with so much heart, "Queen of the Desert" is a remarkably bloodless enterprise.
The founding father of golf, Old Tom Morris, designed some of the world's first courses, but it was his son, Tommy, who mastered them. Though he only lived to the age of 24, Young Tom helped to define the game as it is known today, rising above his station as the son of a lower-class Scottish caddy to become one of the sport's first professional stars. The way "Tommy's Honour" tells it, Old Tom (who is played by that master of stoicism Peter Mullan in stiff tweed suits and a wild-bramble beard) didn't much approve of his son's desire to rise above his station, making for a standard-issue father/son clash-of-wills drama, brought to the screen by Jason Connery, who's had his own challenges filling dad's shoes., "Tommy's Honour" premiered at the Palm Springs Film Festival, where an audience of graying golf enthusiasts tore themselves away from the fairway to enjoy this early chapter in the sport's history. While not as primitive as "The Flintstones" cartoons have imagined Stone Age golf, the version seen here is a far rougher sport, played with handmade balls and wooden clubs on fields of coarse grass so different from the manicured lawns to which modern players are accustomed that the film's intrepid locations scouts must have been hard-pressed to find suitable courses., But the real discovery here is Jack Lowden, a fresh-faced young stage actor who plays Tommy Morris with the dashing self-confidence of a 1920s Hollywood screen idol — though the film takes place roughly half a century earlier. Like the film's director, Tommy grew up on a golf course, and it's assumed by the uptight club members at St Andrews Links (as embodied by a snooty, red-suited Sam Neill) that the young man will become a caddy like his father. But Tommy has no interest in spending his days lugging clubs and teeing up balls for his betters, and devises a plan to play for money., Sporting gentlemen had already been placing bets on Tommy and his father, who competed as a team, settling for tips whenever they won. It's a recurring source of tension that Old Tom was a natural with long shots, but lousy on the putting green, and like one of those would-be rockers in a 1960s-set British music biopic, Tommy couldn't suppress his rebellious streak, ultimately insisting that the gamblers pay him to play., Today, golf stars are groomed from an early age, à la Tiger Woods, and though Tommy clearly spends most of his free time golfing, his father constantly reminds him of his place. That makes for a rather predictable standoff, accompanied by a parallel stalemate with his mother when Tommy insists on marrying an older woman with a scandalous past (Ophelia Lovibond). Still, there's something universal enough in these struggles that the scenes prove effective, despite their familiarity., In fact, these interpersonal moments prove far more compelling than the golf, enriched as they are by the chemistry between the leads. It helps that Mullan isn't playing a monster (as he terrifyingly did in "Tyrannosaur"); rather, he's a gruff pragmatist bound by the rules of an earlier generation, ultimately humbled by the tragedy that awaits his son., While there's a certain charm in seeing these early sportsmen dressed as though ready for mass (no kilts, alas), the golf scenes are undone by the fact that no one can actually swing a club. For some roles, actors will learn to play an instrument of master a manual skill, but there's none of that authenticity here. Instead, Connery has gone back in post and unconvincingly inserted digital balls, which defy the laws of physics as blatantly as the CG goo in Disney's "Flubber." The strategy robs us of what little thrill golf has to offer, whether spectating live or on TV, as impossible shots remain precisely that: impossible., Thankfully, Connery has kept the story's human side grounded in the real world, and those are the only stakes that matter.
The Impressionist painters were to the French Academy what punk rockers were to the conservative pop-music establishment — wild, unruly artists who refused to conform to the standards of what passed for good taste — and yet, to watch a movie like "Cézanne et moi" is to be treated to one of those frou-frou French costume dramas in which Pathé specializes: an impeccably tasteful night at the art house for those who fail to see the contradiction in appropriating this once-scandalous chapter in art history as fodder for mousepads and screensavers., The cinematic equivalent of calendar art, "Cézanne et moi" oh-so-politely recaps the lifelong relationship between Paul Cézanne (played by thoroughly nonthreatening French actor Guillaume Gallienne) and Émile Zola (the even blander Guillaume Canet, husband of Marianne Cotillard), as the two once-rowdy friends meet as children and grow to see their respective life paths diverge. While Zola "sells out" and becomes a celebrated novelist, Cézanne sticks to a style that would not be fully appreciated until well after his death, making for a series of strained encounters as the increasingly disheveled artist relies on his old pal for encouragement over the years., Brought to handsome yet melancholy life by writer-director Danièle Thompson ("Avenue Montaigne"), the film works best for those who weren't aware that Cézanne and Zola shared such a bond, as opposed to French culture hounds already familiar the connection, which inspired Zola's novel "L'œuvre," whose tortured protagonist he based on the painter. The book plays a key role in the movie, since Cézanne was evidently none too flattered with the portrait and felt that Zola was exploiting their friendship — though in retrospect, the author's admiration is clear, revealing a deep respect for a creative spirit who resisted the tastes du jour, and achieved artistic immortality in the process., A veteran of the French filmmaking establishment, Thompson was Oscar-nominated for co-writing the taboo-confounding 1975 romance "Cousin Cousine," and who has specialized in rendering complicated and potentially controversial relationships in perfectly accessible terms. Here, her idea of dramatic turbulence is to tell the story out of order, jumping back and forth in time, while offsetting the perfectly lit widescreen beauty of each scene with an ever-so-slightly unstable handheld shooting style. Visually, the approach makes for a subtle, almost-subliminal attempt to shake things up, but the movie remains entirely too traditional, despite these touches., Perhaps too much time has elapsed since the 1860s, when the story begins, to do justice to Cézanne's renegade spirit. A character can only seem so revolutionary when dressed in straw hats and suspenders, and even at his most disheveled (disguised beneath long hair and a woolly black beard), Gallienne makes for a thoroughly unconvincing slob. He's a fine actor, but no force of nature, and the role seems to call for someone fiery enough to have gone his entire life without yielding to social conventions., As written, Cézanne is a headstrong, hot-blooded lothario, constantly chasing women (an early conquest, played by Alice Pol, later agrees to marry Zola, complicating the dynamic between the two men considerably) and complaining about the lack of respect he gets from his peers. Meanwhile, Zola had the good fortune of being recognized as a genius during his own lifetime. With such acceptance comes the ability to settle into a state of comfortable domesticity in his country mansion — though in light of his activism, it's hard to imagine him being quite the stuffy, pipe-smoking prig of Canet's portrayal. Meanwhile, Cézanne scrapes by in a dingy Paris flat paid for by his wealthy friend, selling his paintings for a fraction of their worth (in one particularly depressing scene, his dealer/supplier shows Cézanne a still life from which he has cut a small square-shaped hole in the canvas, selling just the apple to a stingy client)., The most interesting aspects of Cézanne's struggle are better captured in other works, most notably Ross King's "The Judgment of Paris," which depicts the rift between the Impressionists and the French Academy that supplies some of the film's most interesting scenes — and explains how a painter of horses named Ernest Meissonier (whom you've most likely never heard of) was prized above all the artists whose work now sells for millions, but were rejected by the Academy for the annual salons at the time. Cézanne's crime was painting loose, non-realistic landscape portraits en plein aire. Ironically, this very act of rebellion feels by far the tamest thing in the entire movie, which captures the splendor, if none of the defiance in this simple act, rendering scenes of the artist hiking across picturesque hilltops with his easel on par with idle afternoons spent tooling around in a rowboat with his buddy Zola.
Israeli-American chef and restaurateur Michael Solomonov, left, and chef Meir Adoni at his Mizlala restaurant in the documentary "In Search of Israeli Cuisine." , Israeli-American chef and restaurateur Michael Solomonov, left, and chef Meir Adoni at his Mizlala restaurant in the documentary "In Search of Israeli Cuisine." , Writer-director Roger Sherman’s enjoyable documentary “In Search of Israeli Cuisine” explores the seemingly contradictory question: Is there really such a thing as Israeli food?, What we learn, as award-winning Israeli American chef and restaurateur Michael Solomonov tours Israel, meeting a diverse array of chefs, journalists, food purveyors, farmers and home cooks, is that the country may be too relatively nascent to claim its own official “cuisine.”, Instead, what more accurately exists is so-called new Israeli cuisine, which utilizes and blends the land’s many cultural and traditional influences — North African, Middle Eastern, French, Italian, Eastern European — to create an eclectic fusion of signature dishes., Sherman and Solomonov buoyantly capture the art and joy of preparing and savoring Israel’s raft of gastronomic choices, largely drawn from localized ingredients with a concentration on lemon, olive oil, vegetables, lamb and fish., The film, which often evokes a better Food Network offering, also covers how the Israeli-Palestinian divide can, during more fractious times, affect a restaurant’s patronage, even if some here posit that “food is not political.”, Differences between Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jewish food, where kosher cooking fits in, and the country’s evolving wine industry are neatly examined as well., If the pacing flags a bit en route, enough vivid imagery remains to hold interest, with Solomonov proving a smart, appealing and personally invested guide.
Be very careful what you wish for and be thankful for what you have., That bit of ancient and wise advice cuts to the heart of "The Ticket," a slow-moving but haunting life lesson anchored by an exceptional performance from Dan Stevens of "Downton Abbey." It's that rare film that's likely to stick in the memory long after the lights have gone up., Stevens is James, a happily married man with a young son. Having begun to lose his sight as a child, James has adjusted to a life of blindness. He has a job at a call center where his best buddy, Bob (Oliver Platt), is also blind. He regularly goes dancing with his wife, Sam (Malin Akerman), at the shabby dancehall where they first met., But one morning he wakes up and can see., The doctor won't say it's a miracle — apparently the pituitary tumor that caused his blindness has gotten smaller — but it kind of is. Yet once James gets a good look at the world he has created for himself as a blind man — small house, dull clothes, plain wife, dead-end job — he realizes he wants more., He wants Jessica, that flirty, sexy co-worker (Kerry Bishe from "Halt and Catch Fire," playing against type). He wants that promotion to management — where he has a big idea about cranking up revenue — even if it means damaging his friendship with Bob. And he doesn't want to go back to that dancehall., The question then becomes: Which James is the blind man?, The answer won't surprise anyone but Israeli director/co-writer Ido Fluk ("It's Never Too Late"), making his first English-language feature, turns the obvious alluringly artful — the entire opening sequence with dialogue and no visuals pulls us in to James' world — while Stevens makes both versions of James stirringly believable and sympathetic., "The Ticket" isn't a faith-based film, though it does have a basic moral lesson that wouldn't be out of place in those movies. It just does it without the explicit religiosity. Believers, nonbelievers and the unsure alike can learn a lot from James. 
"Smurfs: The Lost Village," the third theatrical feature centering on tiny blue humanoid forest creatures beloved by small children, has enough bright colors and slapstick humor to enchant its target audience. But anyone much taller than a Smurf may turn blue long before its 81 minutes are over., Created by Belgian cartoonist Peyo in the late 1950s, the Smurfs, for the most part, have names that define their social role, occupation or character: Papa Smurf (voiced by Mandy Patinkin); Farmer Smurf (ventriloquist Jeff Dunham); and Brainy Smurf (Danny Pudi), to name a few. The one exception to this rule? Smurfette (Demi Lovato), the sole female character. Exactly what does she do?, In Smurf lore, Smurfette was created by the evil wizard Gargamel (Rainn Wilson) out of a lump of clay to spy on the Smurfs. But Papa Smurf transformed her into a force for good (in the process changing her from brown-haired to blond and, incidentally, sending a troubling message to dark-haired little girls everywhere)., The plot of "The Lost Village" exposes its own lack of character development. As it gets underway, with the Smurfs trying to prevent Gargamel from capturing Smurfs to turn them into gold, Smurfette is shown embarking on a journey of self-discovery to figure out what, precisely, she's made for. Is she just a pint-size version of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl, the kind of cute female character, best epitomized by Zooey Deschanel, who exists as nothing more than an emotional delivery system — whether of support or rejection — for male characters?, The answer lies, sort of, in the Lost Village, an all-female enclave populated by Smurfs with such names as Smurfwillow (Julia Roberts), which, for the most part, do not describe their character or vocation at all. Michelle Rodriguez's warrior Smurf, Smurfstorm, is the sole exception., In an attempt to compensate for Smurfette's historical lack of identity, the film delivers a lesson — spoiler alert for anyone reading this who is still awake — that she can be anyone she wants to be. Meanwhile, the male Smurf population remains, presumably, trapped by the limitations of their names., The movie is not without its imaginative pleasures, including Snappy Bug, a ladybug whose underside doubles as a camera, and whose legs stamp out photographic prints, like a dot-matrix printer. Only Clumsy Smurf undergoes any real character development when he finds that he isn't, er, clumsy with everything., But the garish pastels of the Lost Village, while they introduce us to such delights as wondrous dragonflies, aggressively self-pollinating flowers and glow-in-the-dark bunnies, come off like some kind of family-friendly psychedelic trip (one that could only have been envisioned by the kitschy artist Thomas Kinkade, the "Painter of Light")., Children may well find all this delightful — along with any adults who have managed to retain the requisite level of childlike wonder and innocence. But when it comes to trippy children's entertainment, most people would be better off sticking with "Teletubbies."
"All Governments Lie: Truth, Deception, and the Spirit of I.F. Stone" is an urgent and fascinating documentary. Even if you belong to the choir it's preaching to, it has the rare distinction of being a movie you can agree and argue with at the same time. The title makes it sound like a portrait of I.F. Stone, the trend-setting investigative journalist (he died in 1989) who in his highly influential self-published newsletter, I.F. Stone's Weekly, tweaked and railed against the sins of the U.S. government — and the mainstream media, though back then it was known simply as, you know, journalism — from the early '50s through the early '70s. Stone, you could argue, was the missing link between Thomas Paine and the Internet. "All Governments Lie" treats him as the original political blogger, though it doesn't offer much more than a thumbnail sketch of Stone. His gadfly spirit hovers over the movie, but his life and work occupy maybe 10 minutes of it., We see Stone in clips, where he looks like a jovial owl in Coke-bottle glasses, wearing the outfits of a portly professor, and he explains his reporting methods, which were so unsexy at the time that they now seem completely exotic. He didn't call government officials, and he wasn't even accredited to attend a White House press conference. Instead, he went into back rooms and pored through documents and transcripts to learn what was really going on., The result? In 1964, when President Lyndon Johnson and his Secretary of Defense, Robert McNamara, engineered the Gulf of Tonkin incident, the two contrived acts of North Vietnamese "aggression" that were used as a trigger to launch the war in Vietnam, the mainstream media didn't discover or acknowledge the truth — that the U.S. had misrepresented the incident — for years. But I.F. Stone got to that truth the week after it happened, one of countless scoops he nailed while under the mainstream radar. In the movie, Michael Moore compares Stone to Toto in "The Wizard of Oz," tugging back the curtain to reveal the power elite hiding behind their image of authority. It's a comparison that Moore takes comfort in, because it means that we don't have to be so frightened of what's behind the curtain., I.F. Stone, known as "Izzy" (the perfect rock-star-of-dweeb-investigators nickname), was one of the great journalists of the 20th century, and he deserves a movie of his own. But "All Governments Lie" is mostly devoted to the pluck and courage of his present-day inheritors. It's a portrait of roughly half a dozen independent reporters, a few of whom have achieved notoriety, who are carrying on the tradition of renegade muckraking that Stone almost singlehandedly put on the map in the postwar era. The Intercept, an online investigative site, was launched in 2014 by Glenn Greenwald and Laura Poitras (from "Citizenfour") along with Jeremy Scahill, with financial backing from the eBay founder Pierre Omidyar. Greenwald calls it "The spirit of I.F. Stone, but funded with $250 million," and the site has done a great deal to unearth the new surveillance security state, including a story we see about the use of German satellite towers to coordinate assassinations by U.S. drones., The movie tips its hat to people like Amy Goodman, whose global news program "Democracy Now!" straddles radio, TV, and the Web, and John Carlos Frey, who we see reporting a cataclysmic story about 200 Mexican immigrants whose bodies were discovered in mass graves in Brooks County, Texas, 70 miles from the border. Mostly, though, "All Governments Lie" focuses on big game like the rah-rah run-up to the Iraq War, which it uses to illustrate the thesis that the mainstream media — all of it — has become a bought-and-paid-for tool of government and corporate power., On dark days, there's a good case to be made for that. The propaganda that paved the road to the war in Iraq (the acceptance of WMDs, the Colin Powell testimony, even the preposterously alleged Saddam/Al-Qaeda "connection") went, for the most part, egregiously unquestioned by the mainstream media, notably The New York Times. That has now made the Iraq War drumbeat a kind of Rosetta Stone for independent journalism. Yet as you watch "All Governments Lie," the anti-mainstream-media arguments are repeated so often, and so broadly, that they become a kind of catechism: All media is controlled by advertisers. Reporters aren't allowed to question The System. Greed, corruption and government-sanctioned criminality are shrouded in narcotizing fake news. There's truth to all of this — especially if you tend to get your news from network TV. But if you'd just arrived from Mars and watched "All Governments Lie," you'd come away thinking that independent journalism in America was the only kind of journalism you could trust. And that, to put it mildly, is an overstatement., Directed by Fred Peabody in a mode of lively documentary prose, with Oliver Stone as one of its executive producers, "All Governments Lie" suggests that the kind of fearless independent reporting practiced by I.F. Stone is alive and well — and that if anything, it's gaining traction. The film's arguments about the blizzard of fake news (the Kardashians, etc.) that swirls around us are undeniable. At the same time, the fragmentation of our attention spans — and the general dislocation from reality — that has led to a society engulfed by conspiracy theory, not to mention an "outsider" president, can't be blamed on mainstream media. The problem is more profound than that.
Everyone involved with "Gifted" no doubt intended a sweet, affecting, sincere and, as manipulative heartwarmers go, relatively low-key affair., But virtually no one involved appears to have remembered what human or human-adjacent behavior should feel like, scene to scene. Easier said than done. But this contrived mashup of "Proof" (earth-shaking algorithms), "Kramer vs. Kramer" (nerve-wracking custody battles) and "Little Man Tate" really isn't much., Screenwriter Tom Flynn ("Watch It") sets his tale in a breezy coastal Florida town. Freelance boat mechanic Frank, played by Chris "Captain America" Evans, home-schools his niece, Mary (Mckenna Grace). The kid's a prodigy, particularly in mathematics; her mother (Frank's sister), now deceased, devoted her suffocating life to mathematics, at the fierce urging of Mary's Boston grandmother (Lindsay Duncan)., Frank decides 6-year-old Mary needs friends her own age, so he enrolls her at the local public school. (Octavia Spencer struggles to activate the bleh role of Mary's neighbor, occasional caregiver and best pal.) At school, the girl's teacher (Jenny Slate, doing some of the least conspicuous and most effective acting of her career) realizes Mary's exceptional gifts. She also realizes Frank's laconic charms as the local "quiet, damaged hot guy," as she and a female colleague refer to him., Slate's scenes with Evans, her former real-life romantic partner, feel easy-breathing and lived-in. Most of "Gifted" strains to catch its breath. The bulk of it deals with questions of Mary's destiny. Should she give up life with her uncle, and their one-eyed cat, Fred, for the unknown? A dream adoptive couple appears on the scene; so does Mary's birth father, whom she has never met. Frank blames his mother, eager to steer her granddaughter's life, for the death of Mary's mother. In and out of court, the story depends on matters of contrivance and abrupt revelations (Frank has no health insurance!) and narrative switchbacks owing more to convenience than character., Mckenna Grace and Chris Evans star in “Gifted.”, Mckenna Grace and Chris Evans star in “Gifted.”, The director Marc Webb scored a slick popular success with "(500) Days of Summer" before moving on to a couple of "Spider-Man" pictures. Perhaps he, like Evans, was so grateful to get rid of the superhero stuff for a while that he neglected to take an honest look at the script at hand. Also, it's a small problem but a telling one: There's one conversational shot of Evans and Glenn Plummer (who plays Frank's lawyer) dominated by a sudden and ridiculous hand-held camera. You can't even hear what they're saying. You're too worried that "Gifted" is actually having a seizure.
A pleasant hangout session for its stars, and those who love them, the remake of the bittersweet 1979 comedy "Going in Style" cheers things up for early 21st-century audiences and allows its Golden Boys ensemble a measure of dignity alongside the slapstick, pathos and wish fulfillment. If that sounds like a qualified endorsement, you're reading me loud and clear., Director Zach Braff, best known for "Scrubs," works from a script by Theodore Melfi ("St. Vincent," "Hidden Figures"). With their approximately $45,000 annual steel mill pensions frozen and presumed lost, owing to manufacturing moving to Vietnam, retirees Joe (Michael Caine), Willie (Morgan Freeman) and Al (Alan Arkin) are saddled with money problems in the extreme. (Millions may watch "Going in Style" and, at least for a moment, think: Must be nice to have a pension to lose.) During a testy meeting with his local loan officer about an imminent home foreclosure, Joe witnesses a deft, bloodless bank robbery and gets an idea. Why not go gangster himself and pull off his own heist, with the help of his pals?, "Going in Style" spins forward, as the not-so-terrible trio first attempts some medium-weight shoplifting (Ann-Margret pops in as the grocery store employee with the hots for Al). With the help of a local pet store owner (John Ortiz), they montage their way through a month's worth of robbery planning. Christopher Lloyd, among other character actors, appears as a delusional regular at the VFW hall where the gang hangs out, dreaming of a better third act than the one fate, and corporate America, has dealt them., I hadn't seen writer-director Martin Brest's original "Going in Style" since it came out nearly 40 years ago, and a revisit was frankly astonishing. Brest had the sense, the taste and the temperament to allow George Burns, Art Carney and Lee Strasberg to play their scenes, many of them achingly sad, at a relaxed tempo. There's hardly any rim-shot humor or concessions to perceived audience taste circa '79., Alan Arkin, from left, Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine star in the codger-heist heartwarmer remake “Going in Style.”, Alan Arkin, from left, Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine star in the codger-heist heartwarmer remake “Going in Style.”, Braff's remake is a lot pushier, and more determinedly ingratiating. Arkin gets the most from the material, simply by not falling prey to the obvious rhythms in Melfi's screenplay. Too often the movie ignores what it has right in the foreground, in its favor. There's an Arkin/Ann-Margret duet on "Hallelujah I Love Her So" that gets lost in a chaotically edited action sequence, for example. Braff's approach is the bigger-equals-funnier mode, and while that mode has its commercial upside, the downside is a delightful hambone such as Lloyd working 200 percent harder than needed., The same cannot be said of the stars. Caine, Freeman and Arkin redeem a lot of the movie, and interesting faces keep turning up, such as Matt Dillon (as a dumb/smart hybrid of an FBI agent), Joey King (as Joe's granddaughter) and Maria Dizzia (too-briefly seen as Joe's daughter). Freeman is now 79; Arkin, 83; Caine, 84. Collectively these performers have learned more about what works with an audience, and how to serve a character, than can be measured. "Going in Style" stays in the safe zone every second, nervous about risking any audience discomfort, as opposed to Brest's quietly nervy ode to old age and its discontents. Times change. If Braff's film is a hit, it'll be because the three headliners have more or less refused to change with them.
Whereas so many movie romances begin with a charming meet-cute and progress from there, audiences can never be quite sure whether the central couple in "Your Name" could ever meet, even though they have a weird habit of waking up in one another's bodies. An endearingly loopy mix of time-travel, body-swap and disaster-movie ingredients that was a massive hit in its native Japan, this unconventional romance hails from the imagination of Makoto Shinkai, a talented up-and-coming animation director who launched his career with the ultra-indie "Voices of a Distant Star," and who has dedicated himself to creating some of the country's most stunning anime ever since. ., Because neither Newton's Laws nor traditional genre rules apply here, "Your Name's" fantastical premise skips the usual love-at-first-sight cliche and introduces its would-be couple — big-city Tokyo teen Taki (voiced by Ryûnosuke Kamiki) and provincial schoolgirl Mitsuha (Mone Kamishiraishi) — under far more intimate circumstances: Taki's first impression of Mitsuha is how strange it is to suddenly awaken as a girl. So, rather than worrying about all the things that could potentially come between them, as we normally would in a romantic drama, here, the suspense hinges on whether these two characters will succeed in figuring out who one another actually is — and from there, why the cosmos have seen fit to connect them in the first place., Initially, Taki and Mitsuha can't even be sure the body-swapping is actually happening, mistaking days spent in a complete stranger's skin as vivid dreams — that is, until their friends' and family's reactions reveal that while they've each been away, someone else has been eating breakfast, riding the bus/subway and going to school in their place. Of course, neither has any clue how to handle being thrust into the other's life, surrounded by strangers in a city far removed from their own home. It takes a few such switches before they even learn to communicate, and longer still before they discover how to use the arrangement to their mutual advantage., This playful setup gives way to a far more elaborate supernatural scenario, one that exploits a feeling not unlike déjà vu, only stronger, as neither character can seem to hold onto the memory of what they did while out-of-body for long. Meanwhile, the puzzle becomes increasingly clear to us, the audience, as we gradually come to understand the significance of a gorgeous atmospheric condition teased in the film's opening seconds., Audiences would be hard-pressed to find any animator capable of rendering more beautiful skies, or landscapes, than Shinkai. Among the innovations of Shinkai's self-taught, all-digital approach are the director's signature hyper-realistic backgrounds, which are more than mere paintings, but shimmer and change perspective in ways that the old cel-based techniques never allowed. In "Your Name," that allows for the film's most breathtaking moment: Like Richard Dreyfuss, carving Devil's Rock out of his mashed potatoes in "Close Encounters of the Third Kind," Taki has taken to sketching what looks like a giant round lake formed by the crater of a meteoric impact. For years, he hasn't known what to make of these drawings, since physically speaking, he's never so much as ventured beyond Tokyo. But once he finally musters the momentum to investigate his time spent as Mitsuha, the search leads him to the lake in question, which has dramatically changed shape since the last time he saw it., Only then does he realize that his old body-swapping buddy may have been the victim of a long-ago comet strike, and through a series of time-travel paradoxes that never quite make sense, he spends the rest of the movie trying to save her so that one day they can be together — the tragedy being that even if he succeeds, there's no guarantee he'll even be able to remember anything about it, much less the name of the stranger with whom he shared this vicarious adventure. Meanwhile, this vividly realized and emotionally satisfying feature ought to make Shinkai a household name.
The casting debate swirling around "Ghost in the Shell" — a movie inspired by a lot of other movies, but one that's sharply realized and worth seeing — rests on whether the female human/robot hybrid introduced in Masamune Shirow's cyberpunk manga in 1989 makes any cultural sense as played by Scarlett Johansson. The answer: It doesn't, but it does. A paradox! In director Rupert Sanders' darkly imaginative new film, Johansson plays the Major, a member of the cyberterrorism law enforcement division trying to keep hackers from sabotaging the artificial intelligence wonders manufactured by Hanka Robotics. The shell of the title, for the edification of my fellow manga know-nothings, is the sleek android body, capable of amazements and really slick combat moves. The ghost is the human part, the soul, or at the very least the functioning human brain placed inside the shell., The star of the movie is the box office insurance. Here's why the casting controversy isn't a deal breaker to me. For one thing, director Sanders' on-screen ensemble ranges all over the globe, from France's Juliette Binoche (as the surgeon overseeing the AI patch-ups) and Romanian Anamaria Marinca (as a fellow tech specialist who never puts down her cigarette in the lab) to Danish star Pilou Asbaek (as the Major's dog-loving comrade) to Japanese actor-director "Beat" Takeshi Kitano, supercool as he mows down adversaries., For another, "Ghost in the Shell" owes a great deal to previous incarnations of the material, including the 1995 animated feature. But it actually feels like an organic entity, which is an odd thing to say about a movie about robots and humans with robotic upgrades., Scarlett Johansson plays a human/robot hybrid member of a cyberterrorism unit in “Ghost in the Shell.”, Scarlett Johansson plays a human/robot hybrid member of a cyberterrorism unit in “Ghost in the Shell.”, And this: Johansson, known to global audiences for many roles but mainly as Black Widow in the ongoing "Avengers" destruction larks, has by now perfected her unblinking, unsettling, uncanny way of creating nonhumans with a human pulse. In director Jonathan Glazer's mind bender "Under the Skin" (2013), Johansson played an extraterrestrial conducting the world's grimmest speed-dating exercise. In the less interesting, more commercial "Lucy" (2014), from Luc Besson, she transcended previously known human limits of intelligence, as was the case with the Siri-like voice she provided in Spike Jonze's marvelous "Her.", "Ghost in the Shell" gives her a chance to operate a female-driven action franchise, and yes, casting Johansson surely Westernizes the project to a substantial degree. That fact is complicated by the film, and the performance, being good., We're in "New Port City," sometime in the future, and the urban Asian metropolis recalls elements of "Metropolis" (densely snaking roadways to nowhere); "Blade Runner" (relentless advertising signage, this time entirely digital, so that massive digital fish appear to swim amid pedestrians on the street); and early 21st-century Tokyo, pumped up and packed with technology both alluring and suffocating., The movie's half police procedural, half personal investigation, as the Major gradually discovers the truth about her human past. There's a hacker (Michael Carmen Pitt) whose acts of sabotage serve as a warning against Hanka's insidious societal influence. Tracking him down leads the Major deeper into her own mysteries., This isn't jokey, quippy science fiction; true to the source material, it's fairly grave about the implications of an android-dominated culture, though of course "Ghost in the Shell" is also about giant mecha spiders equipped with machine guns. I got a little itchy and a mite restless during this routine action climax. But until then I was happily enveloped by the visual world created by director Sanders, his cinematographer Jess Hall and the production designer Jan Roelfs. If you want a list of comics-derived spectacles less successful and worthy than this one, "Suicide Squad" heads the list. And that's the only list it'll ever head.
Art and life converge — and sparks fly — in "Mr. Gaga," an intimate study of groundbreaking Israeli choreographer Ohad Naharin, inventor of the movement philosophy known as Gaga, which has evolved into a basis for training dancers and, in its less rigorous, more therapeutic applications, a form of exercise for non-dancers., Documentarian Tomer Heymann followed Naharin around for eight years, for rehearsals, performances and interviews. Cinematographer Itai Raziel captures Naharin's dances in ravishing detail: athletic, propulsive, minutely synchronized and performed by highly agile dancers. Heymann also plumbs the depths of Naharin the man. It's not only his choreography that can get spiky., Most of the dances in this 2015 film were created for Tel Aviv's Batsheva Dance Company, which Naharin has led since 1990. Details are filled out with childhood home movies, archival dance footage and the recollections of others. We see Naharin as a freewheeling kibbutz kid, as an athletic teen and as a young, searching dancer in New York City., Naharin went there to work with Martha Graham's company and to study ballet. He also met Mari Kajiwara, a star with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater who later became his collaborator and wife, eventually moving back to Israel with him — not an easy choice for the native New Yorker., Former dancers and teachers remark on the demanding, difficult, selfish, gifted and irresistible fellow that Naharin, now 64, has always been, defying norms (and, at least once, the Israeli government over an issue of costume censorship)., Gaga looks like fun, but the soul-revealing "Mr. Gaga" makes clear the sacrifice Naharin's dedication has exacted from family and dancers alike., Gaga dance teacher Anna Long will perform a dance and participate in a discussion after the 7:15 p.m. screening Friday.
"The Boss Baby" derives its premise from the notion that when new babies show up in the household, they render parents into slavishly devoted employees with their demands and fits. Babies are like bosses, but more satirically, bosses are like babies, right? That metaphor is explored in Marla Frazee's children's book, with a boss baby outfitted in a suit, complete with buttoned bottom flap, and now that's been transported to the screen with Alec Baldwin voicing the titular boss., In theory, the idea seems about as interesting as "Baby Geniuses," but in execution, the film is surprisingly fun and clever. Written by Michael McCullers, it's almost too clever for its own good — only adults are going to the appreciate nuances of the jokes and wordplay about corporate middle-management culture, with all of its memos and water coolers., A scene from the movie "The Boss Baby", A scene from the movie "The Boss Baby", That content is offset with a wild and creative visual design. The film is directed by Tom McGrath, who directed the "Madagascar" and "Megamind" films, and got his start in animation on "The Ren &amp; Stimpy Show." There's a fluidness to the action sequences, especially the imaginative fantasy sequences of young Tim Templeton (Miles Bakshi), the boy whose home the Boss Baby invades. It's a visual treat from start to finish, expansive in scope and multitudinous in its design influences., Though Frazee's book offers the metaphor of the Boss Baby, McCullers fleshes out a full action-adventure story for Boss Baby and Tim. Turns out this Boss Baby isn't here to stay, he's just on a mission from BabyCorp to infiltrate PuppyCo. via his new parents and investigate their new product launch. Turns out BabyCorp is concerned that their market share of parental love is tipping too far into the puppy realm, and they need an ambitious young executive to turn things around., But this corporate scheming is simply the backdrop for what becomes a sibling love story. Tim and Boss Baby start out as rivals, especially when he discovers that his little be-suited younger brother is actually a swaggering executive with the dulcet tones of Baldwin, outfitted in little sock garters, with a penchant for sushi and espresso. The two strike a deal: if Tim helps Boss Baby with the PuppyCo. mission, Boss Baby gets his corner office, and Tim gets his parents' full attention back., Through their misadventures and antics, the two learn to work together and love each other, and discover that siblings are actually fun for things like imagination playtime and wild harebrained plots to save their parents from the dastardly PuppyCo. CEO Francis Francis (Steve Buscemi). It's the kind of sibling love that one looks back on in fondness, as this film does in bookends, with older Tim voiced by Tobey Maguire., Most of the movie's laughs are from the cognitive dissonance of Baldwin's voice coming from a large-eyed, adorable blonde baby, and there are some great visual gags — his mouth twists into a pout that is veritably Trumpian — and references that the film incorporates. "Cookies are for closers!" he barks, harkening to Baldwin's memorable speech from "Glengarry Glen Ross." "The Boss Baby" is great fun for parents, but it remains to be seen if kids will get it at all.
The Holocaust film has become a genre unto itself, and sadly, there are more than enough stories from that era to continue the trend. Against ever-shifting, polarized political landscapes, the lessons gleaned from the horrors of this very recent past are never not relevant. But too often, many of these biopics fall prey to well-trod norms and conventions. In Niki Caro's "The Zookeeper's Wife," the backdrop of a Warsaw zoo offers a new angle, and features a show-stopping performance from Jessica Chastain as the real life Antonina Zabinski, but it otherwise follows a familiar path., Caro, working from script by Angela Workman adapted from Diane Ackerman's book, smartly places the focus on Antonina. The rest of the plot may go a bit muddy, but when we're trained on our protagonist, it's all crystal clear. In an opening sequence, we witness her unique bond with the animals of the zoo, the power she holds over them with her simple approach of open-hearted love and empathy for all. With tenderness and bravery, she calms an elephant and rescues its baby, and those same qualities make her a hero for humans in the face of unspeakable evil., The story is one we know, of ordinary people choosing to do extraordinary things to preserve a shred of humanity in times of war and human destruction. Antonina and her husband, Jan (Johan Heldenbergh), decide to harbor Jews from the Warsaw ghetto in the basement of their home while their zoo is occupied by Nazi forces. They hide these "guests" in plain sight with a system of signals, transporting them from Jan's garbage collecting truck to underground tunnels., Caro never quite achieves the razor's edge suspense that such a scenario engenders, as their ruse is only one sneeze, one bad lie, one snitch away from discovery. That danger is never fully rendered on screen in the way that it could be. The truly powerful moments come from Chastain's soul-baring performance as a gentle woman who loves enormously, cares diligently, and always does the hard thing when the situation calls for it. She might be a bit too competent for the purposes of cinematic drama., "The Zookeeper's Wife" delivers a singularly female experience of this war. The male characters are, of course, important, and Heldenbergh and Chastain express a strong chemistry as a couple that is both physically passionate as well as intellectually and ethically aligned. But the perspective is distinctly feminine, and Antonina is unquestionably the hero of the story., The threat of sexual violence simmers throughout, underneath every interaction between Antonina and Lutz Heck (Daniel Bruhl), an overbearing and cruel Berlin zoologist turned military man, who imposes on their property in the form of supervision over an oxen breeding program he's installed. It's a stark reality that Antonina faces in her darkest times, as well as for Urszula, played by the formidable young Israeli actress Shira Haas, a girl who has experienced the worst crimes of the Nazi soldiers in the Warsaw ghetto. Caro explores this theme unflinchingly but doesn't exploit the material for salaciousness. The film's flaws in pacing and suspense are easily overlooked in the shadow of Chastain's moving performance, as well as the performances of those around her. Caro unspools an evergreen tale about the clarifying power of empathy to diffuse fear and hatred.
Back in the '90s, you probably knew them as Mighty Morphin, and these days they take the pre-fix "Saban's," but we all know them best as simply the Power Rangers. Executive producer Haim Saban discovered the "Super Sentai" series on Japanese television in the '80s, and brought the concept of teens in colorful costumes fighting monsters to American audiences in the form of the somewhat silly, but much beloved, "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers" series. Now, of course, we have the big screen reboot, for better or for worse., Joseph Kahn's "Power/Rangers" short film that popped up online in 2015 showed just what a truly dark Power Rangers project could look like, but this version of the "Power Rangers" is about as dark as a CW series: just enough to be taken (somewhat) seriously, but with enough of a sense of humor about itself to have some fun too., The team of screenwriters has brought a sense of levity, as well as realism to the high school dramas, and the film is more about a bunch of oddball teens than it is about colorfully suited karate-chopping superheroes. The first half is "The Breakfast Club" with way more extreme daredevil behavior, as this posse of misfits discover each other and stumble into their startling new powers, by way of five colorful coins they happen to blast out of a mountainside., The explosives enthusiast is Billy (R.J. Cyler, who steals the whole movie) a neuro-diverse nerd who befriends disgraced football captain Jason (Dacre Montgomery) in detention. Also on the mountain that day are rebellious former cheerleader Kimberly (Naomi Scott), heavy metal yogi Trini (Becky G.) and adrenaline-addled delinquent Zack (Ludi Lin). Soon they're being groomed by a 65-million-year-old alien, Zordon (Bryan Cranston), and a sassy robot, Alpha (Bill Hader), to take on Rita Repulsa (Elizabeth Banks), who plans to use Goldar the gold monster to steal the Earth's life crystal., If the Rangers are on the CW, Banks is in a universe of her own, stalking about the small town of Angel Grove in hobo dominatrix gear, dramatically stage whispering, "GOLD," "CRYSTALS" and "KRISPY KREME" to no one in particular. It's a committed performance that inspires chuckles, but hopefully it's supposed to., The actual power ranger-ing in the movie is blessedly short, focusing more on character and team building. It's a good thing, because director Dean Israelite and cinematographer Matthew J. Lloyd have a chaotic approach to shooting action. The entire film is dark and murky and the action sequences have no sense of geography. It seems a trend these days to keep the pace blisteringly fast in order to never let the film drag, but the cutting between scenes could give one whiplash., We are denied a good morphin' sequence though, which was the best, most memorable part of the series. All we get is slow-motion strolling when they could have been wildly peacocking on a cliff's edge., "Power Rangers" maintains the essence of its origins in that it's rather pleasantly bonkers. It errs on the side of goofy than gritty, and that's to its favor. Trying to take this too seriously would be a mistake. Ultimately, it's not much more than an itch on that nostalgic sweet spot that Hollywood is more than happy to scratch these days.
Early on, I feared Shiness might buckle under its own weight, both as a moderately-sized RPG from an indie studio and as an ambitious crowdfunded project. It doesn't make a great first impression., There are lots of moving parts, some of which aren't up to par in terms of execution, and some of which are simply dated. You'll solve rudimentary puzzles by weighing down switches with rocks, or by routing colored energy beams between nodes. You'll sit through uncomfortably still cutscenes in which characters stand there, chatting at length. You'll wonder if things are ever going to improve. They will., The game's fantasy setting and anthropomorphic characters stem from a manga; in my case, that meant I didn't fully grasp who was doing what or why at first. I'm still sort of hazy, even now, though some of that is intentional. Shiness throws you right in with two protagonists, Chado and Poky, crashing their airship in an unwelcoming land. It's not that we haven't seen warring kingdoms, elemental spirits, or floating islands before, but I struggled to keep up with the menagerie of proper nouns., , The short of it is that Chado (amusingly pronounced "Shadow") can see and speak with the Shiness, a spirit of great importance and the impetus for him getting caught up in a wider conflict., Truth be told, you can get along fine with Shiness even if you skim through its familiar, text-heavy narrative. The story was serviceable enough to keep my attention, but I found the generally lovely art direction, pleasant music, and engaging combat system to be the true motivating forces., The game is split into open-ended but discrete zones that are conjoined by loading screens. The general flow goes a little something like this: You'll catch wildlife for parts you can sell or barter with to acquire better gear; strike monsters to initiate closed-arena fights; and use character-specific abilities to circumvent obstacles. Some areas are wide open fields, others are snowy mountains, and others still are light dungeons. Aside from a few instances where I was utterly stuck on how to proceed due to vague instructions, I found the pacing to be great and the constant variety of landscapes surprising., The other high point is the fighting itself. Shiness hinges its combat system on punches, kicks, blocks, dodge rolls, and parries, as well as RPG-staple elements like water, earth, and fire that can be refueled by "channeling" at the appropriate time. There's... a lot to learn. You'll recruit a five-character party, but you can only ever have three active members as you roam the world, and fights are one-on-one (with your two pals buffing you, or tagging in as needed). By the end, you'll need proficiency with all of those aspects and fast reflexes, particularly when it comes to the brutally unforgiving multi-phase bosses., , In general, Shiness does a decent job of keeping you on your toes without feeling too overwhelming or unfair, but certain enemies do have a tendency to use spammy tactics, forcing you to play similarly or stockpile healing items. It's also not as visually polished as it could be. From the outside coming in, my big concern for the game was that the combat would eventually become stale, but it ended up being intricate and demanding enough to hold my interest the whole way through., I appreciated that the more drawn-out, fetch-some-trinket quests are largely relegated to side activities, helping to maintain a brisk critical path. But part of that quick pace can also regrettably be attributed to uninspired puzzles, which ask so little of players as to feel obvious and boring., All told, Shiness is an uneven adventure, but one I'm glad I undertook. While it's too ambitious for its own good, deep down, and despite some hard-to-overlook faults, you can just sense that this was a passion project. I'm not sure if Enigami will get to make a sequel, but if it does, I'd be up for it., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Shiness: The Lightning Kingdom reviewed by Jordan Devore, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Who do you voodoo? Voodoo won't woo you, With the release of Banjo Kazooie-inspired Yooka Laylee, the upcoming Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy, and the revival of Psychonauts, 3D platformers are re-emerging in mainstream gaming. Whether this will just be a short-lived nostalgia trip for gaming as a whole or if the genre is here to stay remains to be seen, but a number of re-releases have given us a chance to re-evaluate old classics or even have a first crack at the more niche titles that slipped by us., Originally an Xbox exclusive released back in 2003, Voodoo Vince never received more than a cult following, failing to garner the widespread acclaim that its peers got. Myself a lifelong fan of 3D platforming collect-a-thons, I was eager for a chance to not only play but review one I missed. Unfortunately, Voodoo Vince fails to make the big-league cut with Psychonauts and Banjo Kazooie, instead faltering to the practice squad among the likes of Croc: Legend of the Gobbos and Blinx: The Time Sweeper., , 

Full Throttle Remastered [official site] is the return of perhaps the most under-appreciated of the classic 90s LucasArts adventures. Double Fine’s remastering will hopefully go a long way to seeing it gain a reputation among a new generation. Here’s wot I think:, , There’s a temptation to take my review of Day Of The Tentacle Remastered, then Find/Replace “DOTT” for “Full Throttle”. Double Fine are onto a good thing here, taking some of the best loved games of the 1990s, redrawing the art, remixing the sound, and releasing them in working condition for modern PCs. May they not stop at LucasArts games, and do the rest of the industry too. It can feel difficult to add much more to the discussion, because if you hate the new art but love the new sound, switch the first off and the second on. It’s Full Throttle, it’s the same great-but-flawed adventure, the same gorgeously detailed but far too short tale of biker Ben in a future world where cars no longer have wheels., Then of course it occurs to me not everyone is ancient. While there’s pretty much no excuse for not knowing about Day Of The Tentacle and Sam &amp; Max: Hit The Road, it’s far more feasible that someone not born before the 90s would have entirely missed Full Throttle. Not because it didn’t succeed – it was one of LucasArt’s most successful adventures, selling well over a million copies, ten times what they’d expected. But it’s the one that’s mentioned after DOTT, S&amp;M, Grim Fandango, Fate Of Atlantis, and of course the Monkey Island series. It can lay claim to a greater place in people’s memories than LOOM, sure, but it’s fair to say it hasn’t received the long-term adulation given elsewhere. And that’s not really fair., 

The most appealing part of the collection is A Fragmentary Passage, which follows Aqua after the events of Birth By Sleep. The episode took me about three hours to complete, but if you collect every treasure, you can extend that an extra hour. Aqua is one of my favorite characters due to her selflessness and determination to save the world, and getting some resolution to her story was satisfying. I won't spoil anything, but playing the episode only makes me more excited for what potential role she might play in Kingdom Hearts III.

Halo Wars 2’s story is the most compelling aspect of Creative Assembly’s console-friendly RTS. The characters’ depth made me want to learn more about them, and the pre-rendered cut scenes – produced by arthouse Blur – feature enough spectacle to fill a Summer blockbuster. Unfortunately, the narrative ends on a frustrating cliffhanger, which left me with uneven feelings about the story as a whole – and the rest of Halo Wars 2 is a similar mix of emotions.

The Odd Gentlemen have done a fine job with its storytelling, though the puzzles and the ways they’ve been incorporated in the tale have been inconsistent. I thought the previous chapter leaned too heavily on them, and while they’re still abundant in the conclusion, they fit well overall. Another fun escape-room style section requires careful observation and exploration. The final section is a puzzle-heavy showdown with the villain that is satisfying and interesting. The only real misstep is a retread of an earlier music-box puzzle that I had to brute force my way through, thanks to poor in-game lighting, my TV’s color calibration, or something else.

The gameplay remains the same from previous episodes, with you either navigating crime scenes and stringing together clues to figure out what happened or fighting off bad guys in quick-time event sequences. The animation and intensity of these combat sequences are enjoyable. If you’re annoyed by limited interactivity, you might find these sequences tiresome, but even then, they’re mercifully brief.

The Witness provides further evidence that video games are approaching the same degree of authorship as more traditional forms of media, in the sense that Braid players will immediately recognize this as another game made by Jonathan Blow. Both games offer devilishly, sometimes painfully tough puzzles built around detailed logic systems that you're expected to intuit and employ with next to no guidance. Both have the uncanny ability to alternately make you feel like a genius and an idiot. Both games tend toward an austere style of philosophizing that can come off as heavy handed or self-indulgent, but which nonetheless seems to flow directly from the individual consciousness of their creator. The Witness matches and then surpasses the exhilarating a-ha moments of Braid's most unconventional puzzles, while also one-upping the simple, discrete platforming levels of Blow's previous game with a sprawling world that's as impressively interconnected as it is starkly beautiful and laden with secrets. This game has been dogged by comparisons to Myst throughout its production, but the comparison is so apt that it's hard not to use that old CD-ROM standard as a starting point. The similarities are overt--again you're a nameless, wordless protagonist exploring a deserted island full of bespoke contraptions and no small amount of mystery--and also tonal, with a softly brooding atmosphere punctuated only by your footsteps and the wind. But the way you engage with the world of The Witness is more focused than Myst's legion of various levers and dials, since all of your interactions with the game come in the form of maze-like line puzzles displayed on screens dotted all over the island. Hundreds of them. There's no inventory, no physics objects to play with, no jumping or even stepping off of ledges. Just panel after panel after panel to complete as you peel back the many layers of the island's intricate secrets. But The Witness is much, much more than just a series of standalone logic puzzles packaged up in a pretty graphical wrapper. Ferreting out the nature of the many different types of puzzles that exist on the island--how their individual rule sets work and interact with one another, what effect they have on their surroundings, and in turn how their surroundings can affect them--is 100 percent of what there is for you to do in this game, and the extent to which you have to really work for many of the solutions can be exceptionally gratifying as you fumble and reason your way through the game's many hours. As such, ruining any of the surprise about how these things work would do a disservice to the people who are really going to enjoy this game, so I'll try to be vague in describing what's in here, and I'd encourage you to read and watch no more about this game than you need to decide if you're interested in playing it. The game never offers a word of explicit tutorial, instead loading you directly into the game world and turning you loose to explore and learn and solve. Most of the island's distinctive areas offer a relatively simple starting set of puzzles that "teach" you the puzzle rules that apply to that area. In practice, the game doesn't spell anything out whatsoever. You learn entirely by doing, and the sparse information you can glean from the trial and error of figuring out the starter puzzles is immediately useful in some cases--allowing you to go forth and apply what you've just learned to more complex problems and push forward in the game--but agonizingly unclear in others. In a couple of spots, after being stuck on more complex later puzzles for hours, I had to return to earlier similar puzzles and simply stare at them, asking myself questions about how they worked and what sorts of pieces they were made out of, before the lightbulb flickered on and I could progress. But the lightbulb moment is why you play this game. It's certainly possible to overthink what it is the game wants out of you--in a few instances, I eventually realized the puzzle I was trying to solve in my mind was harder than what was actually in front of me--and in general, the puzzles in each area are consistent about adhering to the theme of that area, so frequently, you just need to stop and focus your thought process. The iterative nature of the puzzle design, the way subsequent harder puzzles build on the concepts and lessons you've already absorbed--not to mention the specific, nearly hint-less environment in which I played the game--often made me realize that I was actually capable of solving harder problems than I thought I was, if I just invested a little more time, modified my approach, and focused on different concepts or details. At those moments I had to consciously stop and ask myself what I could do differently (and I could actually feel myself suppressing that impatient urge to just run to the Internet for help), which actually felt like a fun little voyage of self-discovery. Absent any sort of guide or hints, you'll have to think, a lot, to put some of this stuff together. The puzzles run a fairly even split between two distinctive styles. Many are abstract problems that operate entirely on their own self-contained logic--typically signified by various colored symbols that appear directly on the maze screen--and feel like the sort of thing you'd see on a standardized aptitude test. Then there's a more organic style of puzzle that often requires you to look and think outside of the maze's borders to the larger game world to hit on a solution. Sometimes these two types of puzzles mix and overlap. Sometimes they subvert or seemingly break their own rules. Absolutely everything about both the puzzles and your surroundings is in play, from your perspective to the lighting to the type of input method you use. You learn very quickly that you can't necessarily take any detail in this game for granted, no matter how minor it might seem. That uncertainty creates a profound mystique, a feeling that anything could happen on this strange island where the rules of reality are more than a little flexible. It's hard to convey the range of creativity in the more complex puzzles and the way they integrate into the game's world without diving into a lot of specific examples, but the range is significant. It's the kind of thing you get really excited about and desperately want to share or discuss with other people when you see and solve it. It's great stuff. The Witness didn't need to be a beautiful game for most of its important parts to work, but it sure doesn't hurt that the island is exceptionally gorgeous. The art design takes a profound less-is-more tack, building a world out of simple geometry and sparse texture mapping, and instead focusing its attention on a strong use of color and lighting to bring out a significant amount of organic detail that's too exaggerated to be called realistic, but also stops short of becoming cartoonish. This saturated, brightly lit aesthetic repeatedly brought The Wind Waker to mind, which is about as respectable a comparison as you can make in my book. The game also seems to use the trick (one that I first remember making the zones in World of Warcraft so moody) of subtly shifting the color grading as you cross the boundary between regions, so that you rapidly get the feeling you're in a different place than the one you just left. That's a handy trick to have in a relatively small land mass that jams desert, swamp, ice, mountain, jungle and forest locations all together in close proximity. And again, the visuals aren't just for show; so many of the presentational aspects play into puzzle solutions and other secrets in clever, satisfying ways. Once again I'm sitting here wondering if I should drop a couple of neat examples to illustrate the point, but no. That stuff is too much fun to discover for yourself.

Having an AI partner join in during gameplay sequences isn’t new to the series, but it feels more fleshed-out this time around thanks to context-specific takedowns and the rapport between the brothers. Like Uncharted 2, the running theme of Uncharted 4 is doing everything its predecessor did, only much better. Everything feels more inspired than Drake’s Deception, from the storyline to the setpiece moments to subtle gameplay touches and animations.

Every week we send Brendan to investigate the seedy underworld of early access. This time, interrogating the robots of Bot Colony [official site]., Bot Colony, according to its own boast, is “the first video game featuring intelligent conversation as its key gameplay feature”. You speak into a microphone and ask questions of the robot characters, or give them commands. You might remember Chris attempting to put books on shelves using this voice recognition feature. You might also remember him failing miserably. Well, it’s been some time since then and we thought we’d give it another shot in this video special. Read on and watch my own doomed attempt to communicate with mankind’s newest mistake., This time, the robot has the added challenge of interpreting a Celtic accent, a task at which voice recognition is famously terrible. I am used to changing my vowels into a mock English for the benefit of confused administration staff who don’t understand when I say that I was born in “aidy-aid”. And there is definitely some of that here. But I was not prepared for the level of misunderstanding these robots would have at the words “name” or “who” and their lack of comprehension of individual letters of the alphabet. At the bottom of the screen you can see where my words were interpreted., This is supposed to be a training sequence, the first of three planned missions but I sadly would not get any further. The robot has witnessed a break-in. A spy has stolen an important piece of tech (an advanced sensor) from a Japanese scientist’s home. You need to question the bot and piece together the exact order of events through its responses. Sometimes you get video records of what the bot has seen, but often he will just rattle off some facts in a hugely specific fashion. The robot’s name is Jimmy. He is the worst domestic robot I have ever met., , As you can see the interrogation was almost entirely fruitless. Voice recognition and AI responses are not really at a stage when you can have an “intelligent conversation” with a machine, no matter what the game’s blurb might say. Even Alexa and Siri fall to pieces under pressure. However, the experience of repeating the word “who” into a microphone countless times has made me sympathise for all future homicide detectives who bring in a robotic witness. It’s true that you can edit the phrase you’re saying in the typebox, or just type all your questions from the start. But that kinda defeats the purpose and appeal of the game. It’s a mystery about chatting to robots, not texting them., I’m not sure what the thinking was behind having so many Japanese names in the story, either. Surely an English-language machine would be more comfortable with ‘John’ or ‘Sarah’, rather than ‘Masaya’ and ‘Ayame’ (no matter what demands the plot has)? And surely the player, more likely to be English-speaking than Japanese-speaking, would be equally glad of simple, recognisable names in a conversation that requires clarity. It’s just one of the world’s details that feels counterproductive., , Before you begin, Windows sets up your voice recognition. You have to speak certain lines into the microphone as part of a voice test that lasts about fifteen minutes, much of it instructions on how to treat the robot (instructions which hint at the low level of cognition your robot is really going to have). But seeing that one test was clearly not enough, I exited out and tried to give the machine more to work with. That’s when you see me bumping out to desktop, whereupon I read out the game’s convoluted back story in my best storytime voice and hoped that it would be enough. It was not enough., I’m sure this is working more confidently for some than for myself. Aside from the accent issue, more voice tests are supposed to lead to better results. But each test takes a long time and there’s no guarantee that three or four or five tests will make the interpreter as clever as it would need to be to follow directions that are more complex than “pick up X” or “walk forwards two metres”. I also realised with hindsight that many words are probably saved in the robots thick skull as American. So when I said, “turn on the tap”, I really ought to have said “turn on the faucet”. Although there is the added trouble of not knowing which objects in the house can be interacted with and which are purely environmental. It’s all very messy., , The truth is, I went in knowing that it would be janky. But I didn’t expect it to be this janky. And I wanted to be surprised at the machine’s awareness. This comes across sometimes, when you insult it, for instance, and it detects the hostility (sorry, Jimmy). But mostly the game is a victim of a multi-layered problem. First, the voice recognition can be laughable. Second, the robot’s interpretation of your questions and commands is as overly strict and non-malleable as you’d expect. Third, the actual “game” itself doesn’t help matters. Trying to collect video recordings isn’t very exciting and putting pieces of furniture back into their pre-thievery positions is no more fun than when you played ‘spot the difference’ on the back of your Honey Cheerios box., No. It is a game wholly reliant and marketed on its technology, which feels so much more absurd the more you attempt to communicate with the machine. I suspect it will be better for people with hours of voice recognition testing behind them (not to mention the exact accent the robot was designed for), and there is also an element of learning the right commands and sticking to that cheatsheet of robot lines. It’s also admirable, from a technology perspective, to pursue projects like this. The ideal – to talk to a robot and have it understand you – is one worth chasing. But with a learning process as daft as this, I couldn’t face going through it all when the story and surrounding tasks are so wafer thin. That, and Jimmy really, really annoyed me.

Even if the campaign’s conspiracy feels a little rote, Willamette is the best playground that’s been offered yet. It has everything you’d expect to find in a small town, from quirky shops to hardware store and homes – and the all-new Willamette Memorial Megaplex mall. Best of all, it’s easy to navigate. Unlike Dead Rising 3’s network of blocked-off freeways, the roads are clear – zombie hordes notwithstanding – and you can circle the map without leaving your car. You want to get out to explore the various shops and interior spaces, though. Dozens of weapon blueprints and other collectibles are hidden within the well-detailed environments, and you can do so at your leisure.

Sun & Moon feels significantly different from previous Pokémon games. X & Y may have marked the series’ biggest visual change, but Sun & Moon shows Game Freak is willing to re-examine Pokémon’s tenured mechanics in order to improve the game. Sun & Moon is still Pokémon, but it showcases some of the biggest changes the series has ever seen – and that’s a good thing.

Battles are methodical and thoughtful. Button-mashers quickly run out of stamina, leaving them vulnerable. A refreshing amount of tension comes at the start of battle, and I loved how often the initial moments of contact would consist of me and my opponent circling one another while switching stances, looking for weaknesses and openings. This kind of psychological engagement is at its best in one-on-one duels or two-on-two brawls, where you’re able to focus your attention and get into your opponent’s head – and hopefully remove it. 

What makes Color Splash such a tremendous disappointment is the fact that so much of it is great. Throughout the game’s lengthy story, it consistently made me laugh with its clever writing and numerous nods to Mario history. Prism Island plays host to a wide variety of locations and activities, and I was always curious what the game would be having me do next. Restoring color to the world is Mario’s goal, and doing so tasks him with appearing on a game show, assembling a train, organizing a tea party at a haunted hotel, and a ton more. It even manages to sneak in some great parodies and references that rarely seem forced.

If Quick Manage still sounds like too much, you can just play out critical situations during the season, which are prompted during the simulation – another nice addition that adds some gameplay to the menu-focused experience.

If you're looking to jump online and throw down against players across the globe, Super Bomberman R's online suite gives you the option to play quickplay battles with customizable rules, or the more standard league battles that let you play to level up into new, more competitive player pools. These simple options could deliver a satisfying way to play, except that network instability renders most matches unplayable due to lag. Even when I tell the game to only find those who have a "good" network connection, the matches feature some degree of latency, with the level of impact ranging from a simple half-second delay from command input to execution, to players running in place and falling completely unresponsive.

No Man's Sky feels like it's been in the public consciousness for an eternity. In reality, it's closer to two-and-a-half years. All that build-up, all those weighty expectations, all of it began a little over half a US Presidential term ago at, of all places, the 2013 VGX Awards. Remember that show? If you do, it's probably because of what a disaster it was. But somewhere in there, tucked amid Joel McHale's active disdain for his hosting role and a bunch of ill-fitting Odd Future interview segments, maybe you remember Sean Murray of Hello Games unveiling his studio's latest creation, an impossibly huge-sounding space exploration game called No Man's Sky. Maybe you remember him nervously shifting as Geoff Keighley grilled him on the details of the game, looking down at his shoes as he described his vision of the ultimate "You see that mountain? You can go there" game, a procedurally generated universe of over 18 quintillion planets, all explorable from pole to pole. Maybe you remember even McHale himself, so detached and sarcastic throughout the show, letting out a brief eruption of genuine-feeling incredulity at the scope of what Murray's small team was trying to accomplish.

On paper, this should all be great, and sometimes it really does come together to produce something unique. Imagine: You’re deep into KPA controlled territory, sprinting from building to building, heading towards one of the numerous side missions (called “strikepoints”) while staying out of sight as best as you can. You’ve managed to silently take down a few solitary guards, and have posted up on the second floor of a devastated brownstone so that you can safely recon the next length of land. There’s an armored patrol slowly rolling down the boulevard between you and your target, and that’s why you don’t notice the chittering of the drone behind you until it’s too late, its blue lights turning red in alert. It flies away before you can knock it out of the sky, and then you hear the distorted horn howling from above: The airship is here, and that means the KPA’s troops are on their way. You pick a few off with your marksman rifle, but their numbers are mounting quickly. A sniper round finds your shoulder, and you realize you’re out of medkits. Time to run.

Many puzzles require ridiculous leaps of reason or sheer luck in order to be solved. This is the fault of many point-and-click games, but Memoranda’s flaws are reminiscent of my worst experiences with the genre (like the infamous inflatable rubber duck puzzle in The Longest Journey). Often, I was combining irrelevant objects or relying on trial and error to progress. Solving these illogical puzzles is frustrating, and the laborious process doesn’t feel satisfying when you finally arrive at the solution. 

Rock Band VR combines familiar conventions with enough new elements to make the experience novel and exciting for fans of the genre. Taking full advantage of the technology, Rock Band VR puts players in the first-person perspective with little UI clogging up your view, a departure from the view in mainline Rock Band games where the concert video-style presentation is background to the prominent note highway. Instead, you're free to look around the stage, with the only UI appearing in a chord guide that floats above the crowd, and a combo meter on the head of your guitar. This new approach plays into the strengths of virtual reality, removing the barrier that exists with previous series between the player and the screen. When a song I love like Foo Fighters' "Everlong" or Megadeth's "Hangar 18" comes on, it's difficult not to get into it. I found myself tapping my foot, nodding my head, and even holding the guitar in a more stylish manner during my favorite tracks.

Unfortunately, the remaining modes fall short. Rhythm Recital challenges you to play along to several iconic songs spanning Mario’s three decades. I loved that I could select songs ranging from the Overworld Theme from the original Super Mario Bros. to the Super Bell Hill theme from Super Mario 3D World, but the instrument parts feel only vaguely related to the music being played. Rather than playing the actual music from the games, you’re relegated to adding small flourishes and additions to the songs as they play automatically. Coinathlon is a repetitive mess of a mode where you play the same three coin-collection minigames on repeat. Each coin you collect moves your character a space forward; the first to complete a set number of laps wins. 

Predictable, often boring, and finishing off with an abrupt ending – this episode disappointed me in many ways. However, I was also drawn in by the tragic relationships that arise out of Bruce’s dual lives as a billionaire and the Caped Crusader. Even though City of Light doesn’t make that the focal point of the episode (as the best episodes in the series have done), it still gives those elements enough time to make the experience entertaining. I won’t spoil anything, but the ending is strong enough that I hope Telltale takes another shot at the Bat and builds something off this sturdy foundation. 

Just when you've mastered the basics, Horizon's massive world opens up. Aloy's first journey out west provides a remarkable sense of discovery; the new desert landscape is teeming with different, deadlier machines, along with new settlements to explore and beautiful vistas to behold. Horizon's mysteries really sink their teeth in here; while it may lack the power and meaningful choices of narrative-driven series like The Witcher and Mass Effect, Guerrilla has crafted compelling lore for its post-apocalyptic world. Unlike most open-world games, I looked forward to finding new audio logs and emails that detail the old world's collapse, and the modern-day conflicts between the isolationist Nora tribe, sun-worshipping Carja, and combative Oseram give Aloy's quest more meaning and complexity. Most importantly, Horizon isn't afraid to delve deep into heady sci-fi topics, and the myriad mysteries it sets up are all answered in a marathon of revelations and explanations toward the end of the game. Despite its flaws and foibles, Horizon's story unexpectedly became one of the major driving forces of the game for me.

Sniper Elite 4 puts you in control of Karl Fairburne, the heroic sniper from the past entries. This time, Fairburne’s adventures take him to Italy to assist the resistance forces. The campaign, which consists of eight lengthy missions, deploys you to a large open area with little more than your loadout and a map marked with objectives. While each mission has a few primary missions that must be completed, the map is littered with meaningful secondary objectives, such as taking out a pesky sniper, destroying artillery, or swiping classified Nazi documents. These goals are all on the way to your primary targets. Because of this, I love planning out my route at the start of each mission.

Most shrines feature hidden treasure chests. Frequently, these contain equipment like melee weapons, bows, or shields. I lost track of how many times I’d get to one, only to be told that my inventory was full. When this happened, I’d step away from the chest, cycle through what I was holding, and toss several items at my feet before grabbing my new toy. It’s frustrating at times, but you thankfully can upgrade your storage capacity by collecting hidden seeds and delivering them to a specific character.

The Sexy Brutale is a stately English mansion that has been converted into a casino for the richest and most eccentric personalities in the world. If you’re lucky, you can walk away from your visit with newfound riches and tales of daring. If you’re unlucky, The Sexy Brutale’s staff murders you. Unfortunately for most guests, the house usually wins.

Most of these modes are anchored by the minigame collection, which features a diverse array of hit-or-miss offerings. I liked minigames like one where you shoot balls of paint at a picture to try and cover more space than your opponent, and another where characters ride Wigglers around and smash into each other. For every good minigame, however, there is another I hated to see pop up. One made me blow into my 3DS’s microphone until I was blue in the face to move sailboats down a course, while another does nothing more than deliver a subpar match-three puzzle experience. Even the special boss battles, which are among the strongest minigames available, only offer a handful to cycle through.

the feeling of surviving in spite of the odds. Facing off against a series of ever-stronger aliens and obstacles as I inched further away from my planetary outpost, a series of good decisions (and a well-arranged deck) can turn tepid luck into a fighting chance. But as often as it gave me just enough to pull through, Loot Rascals threw me into situations where I may as well have folded.

This aspect keeps you on your toes at all times, and even makes farming recipes, gold, and crafting materials an adrenaline rush. You never know who you might run into, and also provides you with an option to get plenty of resources even when you’re not playing the game by sending your troops out on missions to slaughter other players. The loot loop is tantalizing, and because some elements of each floor are random, it rarely gets boring.

, It’s old-fashioned for a number of reasons. The battles are turn-based 3v3 jab-fests and it’s all centered on travels across a hex-based map. You pick three party members at the start, whose classes you can choose and appearance you can stylise to a very limited degree. The blacksmith has a smashy hammer and can stun enemies, for instance. The hunter has a bow and a bonus against flying perps like bats, as well as being better at sneaking on the world map (more on this later)., I began my first and ill-fated misadventure with one of these hunters, to whom I granted a white beard and the name Old Lars. He was accompanied by a Minstrel called Sally McWrecker, who damaged her enemies by playing pleasant music at them, and a Scholar named Mr Paulson, who attacked things by reading from a book I can only presume was so boring it physically hurt anyone who listened., , There’s a mandatory plotline involving the King’s recent assassination and the Queen’s attempts to discover the truth. Off you go to wherever she sends you along this questline, where you discover that the game is really a race against a force called Chaos. This increases with every passing day, adding skulls to a little Chaos meter above the map. They also seemed to pop up when party members died, though it’s hard to say if that was the cause or just coincidence. The exact pattern and reasons for the advance of human headbones isn’t very well explained. Nevertheless, the skulls can be set back by completing the Queen’s questlines, making it feel like an XCOM-style race against encroaching bad things. Higher levels of Chaos cause weird things to come and hinder your progress. After a few skulls were added to the map a “hangman” began to haunt my heroes, who became assaulted by surprise ghosts wherever they walked., , To complicate things, there is also a day and night cycle, with more dangerous and numerous enemies popping up when the sun goes down. You move around the map turn by turn, each party member moving independently. If one of your little reprobates gets into a disagreement with a giant bee or dancing imp, the others will only join if they are in range of the fight – generally speaking, this means within two or three hexes. But the same applies to nearby foes. They’ll come to the bee’s aid if they live within the blood-red range of hexes of their own pal. As far as I experienced it though, you can’t fight more than three baddies at a time. You’ll know which enemies are coming to help your arch-nemesis, the bee, by their appearance on the map – blacked out and inactive means they aren’t coming to the fight. Highlighted and coloured means they are coming to bust your head., , But when the daytime rolls around, the skeletons and ghosts and witches evaporate (mostly) and you get more room to manoeuvre. It’s possible to sneak by enemies completely, or “ambush” them, which means their pals won’t come calling even if they are in range. But this relies on the roll of unseen dice. These dice are more or less the gooey centre of the entire game. Choices and percentages litter both the world map and the battle screen. Your chance to hit anything is determined by luck, which can be stacked in your favour in various ways (equipment, stat boosts, herbs, hats) and your chance to sneak past a beastman or ambush an ogre is likewise affected by this., However, to keep your characters from being too far out of your own control, there’s a “focus” system. You can right click on any choice or attack to add a point of focus and increase the chance of succeeding. Each character has their own pool of these focus points and you can recharge them by sleeping in inns, setting up a camp, eating special herbs, or levelling up at a super-convenient time. There’s still a sense of risk and reward here, because although adding focus to an attempt to shoot a cultist with an arrow will increase the chance of landing a good and strong hit, it doesn’t guarantee anything unless you sink all your focus points into that task – a decision best kept for when success is absolutely necessary., , The whole game hinges on this mechanic and quickly becomes a quest about using your focus points wisely, saving them for a critical moment or making it rain like a rich gangster when you know there’s a town just a few hexes away for replenishment. Then, of course, you reach the town and discover that you don’t have enough money to let everyone sleep in the inn., This is the other side of the RPG coming into play. There are a lot of places to visit – caves to explore, camps to raid, catacombs to graverob, towns to go shopping in – and a lot of enemies to fight. But there is precious little time and precious little money. You are often scraping the bottom of your purse to afford one good thing – a new staff for your scholar, a single suit of armour for your blacksmith, a teleport scroll so that your hunter can catch up with the others on the map before night falls and he gets cut off by a gang of mardy skeletons. I’m always pleased when a game has the courage to put you in a rich world as a poor person. Decisions on what to buy or where to go feel important and lasting because of this. Buying a ship might get you to the next quest location in record time, but it’s so expensive it will leave you all stoney broke for the next day or two., , As for the time constraints, I’ll give you an example. In my first game, I took on an extra quest in our hometown. All we needed to do, it said, was deliver a leather pouch with some unknown contents to a nearby town in the outskirts of the local swamp. Easy. But no road is empty in For The King. Or rather, there are no roads. Just a wilderness full of irksome bats and huge stone hulks. We finally did reach the town but because of the time it had taken us night had already fallen, which made all the backtracking to take on our original (more important) quest all the more difficult. By the time we reached the first chaos generator in the final dungeon of the first quest, we were at 3 out of 5 Chaos kulls, which was, I felt, cutting it pretty close., , That sense of scrounging and under-epuipped-ness is pleasing to any thoroughbred adventurer/hapless victim. Here, things are made even more difficult by the party system, or the lack thereof. You move each hero individually, they all have their own purse of money and their own inventory bags. Only when they’re near each other can they swap gold or items. The game also randomises (to a degree) how much each hero can travel during their turn, some able to move farther than others, leading to surprise fights in which your people are split up and have to fend for themselves., Even the battle mechanics prioritise individual actions over the actions of a sensible party. One day on our adventures, Sally McWrecker and Mr Paulson found themselves facing down some bats without the help of their archer pal, because he was lagging behind a few hexes. This normally wouldn’t be a problem, except the bats had a huge golem friend who came to join the fight. He had 38 health and his punches could deal huge damage to my scruffy pair of low-level vagabonds. Seeing that the fight was not going in our favour, I clicked on the “flee” option during Sally’s turn, which if successful would send us one hex back and end the turn but leave us in safety. At least, that is what I gleaned from the hovering tooltip., , What really happened was this: Sally McWrecker rolled a successful “flee” action and slunk away from the fight with a pathetic wave, leaving Mr Paulson, by far the weakest and most vulnerable of the trio, totally alone, whereupon he was succinctly punched to death by a living rock., , Luckily, you can revive a character just by visiting the hex their corpse is on (the enemies take a walk after a lost fight) and picking them up. Whereas a true ‘game over’ will come down upon your heads if your entire party dies in the battle screen. In the open map this is less likely, but in the trap-filled, multi-fight, mulit-layered dungeons it is much more likely, since you don’t get the reward or complete the relevant quest unless you buck up and see it through to the end., Here you have to fight wave after wave of enemies, but each one offers good loot and often drops herbs that can be used to heal or regain lost focus points between the dungeon’s rooms. But these dungeons are still not easy, as Old Lars will tell you after he got entangled by a cursed witch and was forced to watch his friends die before he too was helplessly stabbed to pieces by an unfettered bone warrior., , In short, it isn’t a pleasant walk through Pallet town. The limitations on your party – the scrubby equipment they find or can afford, their walking speed, their lack of healing items or gold coin – all serve to make it a solid romp full of those tiny decisions and random occurrences that can alter the course of your game for better or worse., There is one big problem I feel, in that the main quest is the same at every restart. The map is newly generated each time, yes, but the quest from the Queen always stays the same. After a while I just wanted to explore the world at my own pace for once. There are many towns you won’t even think of visiting, because they aren’t on the Queen’s pre-ordained list of stopovers, or even placed along the way., , This main quest itself is also blurby fantasy pish, without an ounce of humour or character. This is something that surprised me, considering the visual style of the game is so cute and cartoony, perfectly suited to a sillier story and characters who don’t take their existence as undead skeleton warriors too seriously. Unfortunately, the humour and cheer has to be found between your own rash or botched decisions and the bad luck of your three poverty-stricken losers, or in the daft over-the-top ragdoll deaths of your victims. That humour is there, certainly. The sight of Sally skulking away like a coward during that one fight was enough to make me laugh anyway. But I still feel like the creators are missing an easy window to keep things short-winded and free of dull fantasy mumbo-jumbo. One of the first things you see after starting a new game is a wall of lore-filled text about the Kingdom and the Queen and the Chaos and YAWN YAWN YAWN., , Putting those concerns aside, however, For The King retains a good sense of pacing and toughness. Even the easy mode can slip you up and bash you on the noggin with a gang of wretched sea hags for which you are sorely under-prepared. It feels at times like an old-fashioned turn-based party JRPG that has learned to fight like a roguelike, embracing randomness and strange loot. During one dungeon crawl, Sally McWrecker was only equipped with a shield. One of her options in the fight was to pull out a random weapon from her backpack. She did this and whipped out a glass sword I had received from doing that time-consuming delivery job. I’d forgotten about this weapon. It cut massive chunks of health off the enemies. I was very happy. If I had only read the item’s description more thoroughly, I would not have been so surprised when the sword shattered to pieces after one final blow against an unworthy skeleton, who himself shattered to pieces, probably laughing. Sally was again reduced to punching her enemies in the belly with her bare hands., It’s silly moments like that which harbour the magic of For The King. As ever, early access means things may change, and I certainly hope that there comes some mode in which the Queen’s orders and main quests can be thoroughly ignored. But for now, if you’re seeking some badly-planned misadventure, and a scurrilous death, you could do a lot worse.

Though camera problems and outdated level design are present at times, the moments of exhilaration, discovery, and satisfaction far outweigh those pitfalls. It feels like ages since I've played something like Yooka-Laylee. This is a game that was built for those who look back with fondness on the classics that spawned it, and in that regard, it delivers completely. 

Surviving in the world serves as an important build-up to the ultimate goal, which is defined early on: Defeat Ganon. In Breath of the Wild, Link is not trying to prevent the villain’s resurrection. Ganon is there the moment Link wakes, visible in the distance. His evil presence is clear from nearly every vantage point on the map as a disturbing, glowing evil and it has a tangible effect on the world. I felt it at every moment, whether it was by seeing Ganon in the distance or by talking to Hyrulians living under his oppression. Seeing the goal from the moment I started the game also made my final sprint to defeat Ganon hugely rewarding. When I finally decided I was ready to face Ganon, it felt like the culmination of a lifetime of preparation that ended with a hugely satisfying finale.

Despite Star Fox Zero's resemblance to Star Fox 64 in terms of visual style and stage format/progression, my initial concerns centered on control. In most of its pre-release messaging, Nintendo insisted that the cockpit view on the GamePad is a notable improvement to the traditional gameplay. Despite hearing this PR bullet point consistently whenever this game was mentioned, I was left unimpressed with what I saw of it at E3 last year. I hoped that the final release would showcase the reasons why it would allow for more precise aiming, but it never became apparent. Having a cockpit view on the GamePad and a third-person camera on the TV seems not just unnecessary, but confusing at times. This is supposedly for situations in which you’re locking onto (and circling around) an enemy on the big screen, while still technically able to aim at other enemies in first-person on the GamePad. These situations almost never come up, and when they do, it feels distracting and disjointed to look up and down between the two screens.

Just about every opponent you face can be deadly, but the stronger-than-normal Yokai command fear. You learn respect the first time a one-eyed giant lifts you up and pounds you into the earth, or when a Tengu appears from the sky to lift you away. The pacing of these terrifying creatures and their appearances is amazingly well done – just when you think you’ve finally figured out how to tackle a certain type of monster, a new, more difficult one is introduced to the family. However, even the Yokai are overshadowed by many of the boss encounters. These clashes run the gamut from forgettable to inspired, with many featuring bizarre or terrifying opponents, from a wisecracking smoking frog to an epic final boss fight that delivers in grandiosity, spectacle, and pressure.

As for melee, Marcus has a nifty string attached to a weighted ball which he aggressively swings at foes or uses the cord to choke them. These are thrilling animations, but they leave you vulnerable in a shootout since they take a few seconds to play out, so melee is most useful when you’re out of sight. You can play through the entire game non-lethally with Marcus’ stun gun, but you see no repercussions for a lethal versus non-lethal approach, which makes this distinction nearly meaningless. I preferred the more practical lethal approach, but going the non-lethal route adds more of a challenge and makes more narrative sense for Marcus. 

By putting players in control of city-planning without annoying barriers or online connectivity requirements, Cities: Skylines has established a reputation for being the best modern city-builder when it originally released two years ago. Though the PC release relies on mouse and keyboard controls, the game has leapt to Xbox One with full gamepad support and a new streamlined menu system. The result is the premier city simulation game on consoles.

The Double Dragon franchise was instrumental in turning brawlers into a bustling genre during the arcade era. Jimmy and Billy Lee now return decades later (once again tasked with rescuing Marian), and their journey takes them down memory lane for franchise fans with tons of foes from previous entries and a juiced-up soundtrack that brings the old tunes out with a fresh twist. If you’re looking for a title drenched in nostalgia – right down to the retro graphics and mind-numbing platforming challenges – this is one you don’t want to miss. But recalling your memories of Double Dragons long past may be more enjoyable than this new experience.

Without the pure granular gratification of its tricks, Steep's feast resides in its many moments. Enjoying a beautiful vista, surviving a suicidal bombing run down the side of a mountain, or uncovering a new area and being rewarded for it – this is what keeps me coming back. One memorable moment was during a seemingly routine paragliding event following an NPC. I normally find these kinds of challenges relatively boring, but in this case I mastered riding the wind gusts up the side of the mountain through dangerous, craggy spires. Upon landing, I warmly reflected on the subtlety of an experience that not only contained tense gameplay and gorgeous scenery, but which elicited a quality of enjoying-the-moment that isn't easy to achieve.

This is the vision of the game I hope Hello Games leans into as they work to improve No Man's Sky. Yes, deeper systems, better draw distance, better frame rate, greater variety of, well, everything, all of this is important. Maybe that theoretical possibility of interaction between players should actually make its way into the game, too. But I don't want any of that to come at the expense of that magnificent solitude that No Man's Sky already does so well. That's why I remain here, wrestling with all the ways in which this game's universe is fundamentally broken.

Early reports indicate that setting the lighting to low seems to hold at least some of the instability at bay, but it’s especially frustrating because the game otherwise runs well for me on my Nvidia GTX 760 with High settings. I can go hours and hours with only the occasional hiccup, and then suddenly I'm looking at my desktop wallpaper and left to wonder about where DS3 will decide to put me when I load back in. That said, it doesn't seem like this is a fundamental problem with the game's engine, and hopefully we'll see a fix issued sooner than later.

But there are appealing aspects too. Scanning environments on a newly discovered planet doesn't get old, or at least it hasn't yet for me. Yes, you'll see the same assets recombined in various ways as you play, but even apart from the financial benefits--you earn additional money by uploading your discoveries to a galactic database--it's a wonderful sensation to know you're the first person to see this particular thing, whatever that thing happens to be. And even though engaging with the wildlife on any given planet rarely amounts to much--feeding the more docile creatures sometimes nets you additional resources they scout for you, or occasionally excrete for you--I still like doing it. I like befriending these Frankensteined animals, no matter how grievously repellant they might be. By no means will this grind work for every player; I often wondered not if, but when it would ever stop working for me. But for the subset of players who, like me, succumb to No Man's Sky's perpetual thrum of galactic busywork, it does the job.

A Roman-themed arena combat game that rams home the point that rogueliteish characters are entirely disposable, Domina [official site] is all about feeding meat to the grinder in the name of keeping your precarious bloodsports empire afloat. Even if you somehow keep one of your fragile gladiators alive for long, chances are they’ll be begging for release from their horrific slavery before long anyway. A game of numbers as much as it is a game of death, it might just have a point to make if it weren’t also rubbing its hands together with salacious glee., A mutant pixel art affair, like the Delphine games of yore and as re-popularised by Superbrothers: Sword &amp; Sworcery, the slightly twisted anonymity of its characters suits Domina well. Everyone has a name, everyone has a happiness meter, but no-one actually matters. Blood for the blood god., , Though there’s roguelike DNA in there – keep your characters alive and with gradually improving abilities both by not dying in combat and by meeting basic needs – it’s also very much on the AdVenture Capitalist/Cookie Cruncher, etc. endless numbers side of management games. Which rather fits the Roman empire theme – lives toyed with and destroyed in the name of a few rich bastards’ opulence and entertainment. , Though you can individually manage training and morale, really Domina is set up to have such things be auto-managed by purchasing training ground upgrades to do it for you. You, meanwhile, focus on upgrading gladiator gear (itself a matter of frantic clicking until you run out cash) and choosing which of them you send out to have an increasingly low chance of surviving arena combat vs AI gladiators and the occasional furious lion or two. I don’t like lions, it turns out. Nasty habit of killing my men instantly, it turns out. Don’t bring a knife to a lion fight, say I., You can, if you wish, control your gladiators directly for a spot of high-speed clicky-stabby with a side-order of basic dodging, though as a campaign wears on (presuming it doesn’t end in ignominy early on, which is often the case) this can become even more lethal than allowing the AI to handle them. , , What I really like is that there’s a choice – you can even specify a fighter’s training focus on their aptitude when under AI control, instead of, say, agility, strength, defence or weapon capability. The smart way to play is to create specialists, picking who best to send out against an enemy with a weakness in one discipline or another, but equally it can all be auto-managed if you’re feeling overwhelmed., Most of the time, you’re spending your winnings on buying new gear, picking team-wide new skills or building upgrades while Domina unstoppably ticks through in-game days until the next fight. Everyone needs to be kept fed and watered too, so running out of cash is potentially lethal – even you, as the gladiators’ silent, cash-strapped owner, can starve or thirst to death. , , Also in the mix is keeping a couple of opposing officials happy via a combination of wine-based bribery and occasional make-a-choice text pop-ups, in order that they might cover some of your costs or sell you new flesh for the endless sausage-making-machine. A fair few other elements too, like recruiting NPCs to auto-heal or selecting which ‘blessings’ to apply to your fighters, but really the meat of the game is training up guys then praying they don’t die, leaving you with a handful of rookies. It’s a bit like XCOM in that regard, but with more leather jockstraps., As the game escalates from one-on-one battles to e.g. teams of eight vs. eight and semi-optional boss fights against ultra-gladiators, near-total wipe-outs are eminently possible, and indeed occur with brutal speed. Between that and cash/food/water/morale, it’s one of those games you should expect to completely fail most times you play – and often you won’t see it coming., , This is the design. In fact, so determined is Domina that it’s a done-in-a-session affair that it currently lacks any kind of save feature, including the now-traditional ‘save and exit.’ Quit and you’ll lose all progress – because the idea is that you’ll never make more than an hour or two of progress anyway. This is about doing the same thing time and again to see how far you can get via a mix of chance and decision-making. It has Twitch interaction built-in – it’s one of those sorts of games. , I appreciate the intent, and admittedly it doesn’t take long to get back up to speed in a new campaign, but sadly it conflicts with the reality that none of us can guarantee a certain amount of time, and knowing that you’ll lose everything if you’re called away unexpectedly or your damn cat stands on your PC’s power button yet again rankles. The Binding of Isaac has save and quit, y’know (other than in daily runs)? So I’ll be surprised if it doesn’t end up being patched in here too., , The other fly in an otherwise enjoyable if rather transitory enjoyment is that Domina is swaddled in extremely sweary voiceover. It’s trying to be comic, but most of its gags don’t go further than ‘man says a naughty word.’ It’s clearly playing to the gallery, and there’s again a certain thematic appropriateness here given that gladiatorial events weren’t exactly renowned for their decorum, but it’s neither edgy or offensive – just repetitive and tiresome. , Fortunately, Domina as a game isn’t. It has quite a few moving parts, but each part is very simple. It really is oddly similar to one of those keep-clicking-the-numbers games, but pinned with a more meaningful structure and shallow but engagingly frantic combat. Throughout, I was conscious that I was playing something that was almost aggressively designed to be disposable, and for that reason I can’t say it feels close to my heart – but at the same time, I might just keep it hanging around my hard drive to fill idle half-hours now and again. 

For a while there, back in 2014, we were rather excited to see Four Sided Fantasy [official site]. Then things went quiet. And then, er, the game came out last August. Oops. So why now? Well, I was looking up Four Last Things, the bonkers (and a bit annoying, honestly) Renaissance painting adventure, and clicked the wrong button. Yeah. Welcome to RPS., Crikey, Four Sided Fantasy is rather good. It’s not too late to tell you., OK, look, I’ll be even more honest. I’m more motivated to post about this right now because of the twitching horror inside me at typing out the game’s name without the bloody hyphen it should have. Four-Sided. FOUR-SIDED. Oh my goodness., That aside, and believe me I’m going to be writing it correctly from now on, this is a really smart reality-warping puzzle platformer that merits our attention., Although that attention is best kept if you ignore its puke-inducing bullshit conceit. For some godforsaken reason this is about trying to reunite a boy and a girl who are trying “to find each other”, but separated by an inability to share the same portion of reality. Oh, if only these two blank-faced anonymous cartoons could be together, I could sleep at night again! All that matters now is their love, because the game’s description said it was so! Bleaurgh. Honestly, it’d have been so much better if this featured a cartoon bear and chicken alternating in the space. I care about bears and chickens getting to hang out., , The premise (yes, we got there!) is this: Your character runs about in the standard side-scrolling platform way, fixed to the centre of the screen as the world moves around them. But at any point you can freeze the screen, and move the character around it. And if that freezed screen has open exits both left and right, or up and down, you can go off one side of the screen and come back on the other., This leads to an immediate wealth of lovely puzzles. At their most basic, say you’re running along the open ground and then a giant pillar of rock blocks your path, freeze the screen, run to the far left, and appear on the far right the other side of the pillar. Of course, this is by far not the first game to use that mechanic, but it’s the first I can think of (yes, yes, the Spanish-only Mega CD game you know about did it too) where its your freezing the action that creates the borders. And this leads to much more elaborate challenges, where you’re leaping toward an abyss, but up enough that the dangerous area goes off the bottom of the screen, and instead you fall down through to the top of the screen where you can angle right to land on a moving platform. Maybe line the screen up just right so walking left and right has you fall down through gaps in what would otherwise be impassable floors of rock below you. Or even something as simple (but unintuitive) as freezing the screen above a long stretch of deadly static, but with rock blocking the top, and then just walking along the bottom of the screen!, The further you get, the more it asks you to think, and the more complicated the moves become as you bend time and space to your will. And at no point does it become meaningful or relevant that every time you pass a boundary and reappear, you change from boy to girl to boy to girl again. Honestly, it would have been fine if you were just one character the whole time. It’s silly. Stop it., , The art is pretty lovely, simple but effective, and I really like the design of the two characters. The game’s big imperfection, however, comes with the jumping. It’s not significantly bad, but it feels just slightly off, just not quite right as you drift. I think it’s something to do with the analogue controller sticks, the game over-sensitive and trying to walk instead of run at key moments. Playing both Hollow Knight and Shovel Knight this week too has made the issue more apparent, emphasising the difference between when it feels right, and when it feels wrong. Those two games handle the motion of jumping very differently, but each feels just right for its context. This one, it feels like you’re not quite getting the movement you ought. Not a game-breaker by a long stretch, but a little grumbly., The other really odd aspect is the scenery changing. Early on you run down long corridors of rock or grass to get to newer areas, but then after a while there’s a point where as you run right, the screen goes black for a bit, and then PING, you’re somewhere else with no explanation or transition. It feels incredibly half-finished in these moments, and it’s hard to believe it was ever the intention to have the game just suddenly and jarringly stop, then carry on in a different location like nothing happened., , But then it adds new surprises. Imagine a typical platforming scenario, a long narrow corridor with a blast of something-me-do hurtling down every few seconds. You’ve got to make your progress in the gaps, right? But what happens if you freeze the screen and those blasts keep on coming in? You end up with those going out of the left side of the screen coming back in the right, along with new ones, until you’re bombarded with the things. Not helpful, but what if you could figure out a way to have them pile up somewhere else by these means? Or what about when each of the two characters are affected by gravity differently, so going out of the screen and on again flips the direction in which you fall?, It all works really rather well, and is accompanied by a very pleasing ambient soundtrack, along with nature noises chirping and squawking over the Eno-esque keyboardy tones. And it gets rewardingly difficult, without feeling unfair, or relying on ninja reflexes. (Clearly I have them, but they’re left in their box here.), This is well worth a look, and a good scratch of the head.

BioWare gave itself an easy out with this game's story, after Mass Effect 3's controversial conclusion to the Reaper threat pretty much rewrote the rules of the series' familiar setting. That in itself is a missed opportunity; in a setting already rife with interspecies sociopolitical strife, exploring how the balance of power shifted in the Milky Way after the Reapers were out of the picture could have been fertile narrative ground. Instead, we've sailed a bunch of colony ships 600 years into the future and to the Andromeda galaxy, wiping the slate clean for the writers to lay down a whole new set of rules. But the game does very little of interest with this new freedom. In leaving behind a game world that revolves around ancient alien technology to reach this new environment of limitless possibilities we get... another galaxy that revolves around a different set of ancient alien technology, and for the most part that tech merely serves as a convenient space-magic plot driver rather than a narrative direction to be explored in its own right. You just happen to be the only character in all of Andromeda who can interface with this technology; be prepared to activate weird alien terminals to make plot things happen without any explanation, time and again.

Diamond Dynasty once again makes card-collecting fun, but not from an influx of new game modes that made it so appealing last year. Those modes all return (and are largely the same), but an addictive hook comes from adding new players to your team. I know this is what this mode has always been about, but this year’s game offers over 2,000 to collect, spanning over 80 years of MLB history.

After various spin-offs and re-releases, the buildup to Kingdom Hearts III has been nothing if not drawn out. Kingdom Hearts II launched more than a decade ago, and a whole new generation of gamers can play the early entries thanks to HD remasters on PS3 (and later this year on the PS4). Final Chapter Prologue should be the last new remaster before Kingdom Hearts III; it includes Dream Drop Distance (originally a 3DS exclusive) for the first time on the big screen. Additionally, an episode starring Aqua and a mini-movie, which shows how this crazy journey all began, are both new for this entry. As convoluted as the Kingdom Hearts storyline is, after playing through this collection, I have a clearer understanding of the narrative leading into Kingdom Hearts III. Even without the extra story context, Final Chapter Prologue is fun on its own, and Square Enix did a wonderful job making this a worthwhile collection and not just a port of Dream Drop Distance.

This year’s game excels both on and off the field. Both Road to the Show and Franchise mode received major facelifts to try and shake up the age-old foundation they are built on.

Jumping between bar chords, power chords, arpeggios, and muted arpeggios is fun, especially when the song breaks those progressions up with a solo. The guitar-solo mechanics borrow heavily from the mechanics of Rock Band 4's improvisational solo mechanics, so if you've played that mode, you know what to expect. However, players looking for a true challenge like Guitar Hero and mainline Rock Band games might be disappointed; instead of the satisfaction of completing a song, the main thrill of Rock Band VR comes with making songs sound good through your improvisation (trust me, you can make some classic songs sound like garbage since the guitar sounds mirror your play).

With more traditional RPG mechanics and a real progression system, Paper Mario: Color Splash could have been one of the best games in the series. Because of some unfathomably ill-conceived decisions during the development process, it’s one of the very worst.

Exploration is a large part of Yooka-Laylee. As soon as you enter a world, you wander around trying to find things to collect. I had a blast branching from one area to the next, and the excitement that comes from discovering a secret area is unrivaled by anything else in this game. While the exploration-based structure works to the game's advantage the vast majority of the time, its insistence on not including modern conventions like waypoints or maps can lead to long stretches of running around in circles trying to find the next mission to complete.

Following Breath of the Wild, Nintendo's nascent system is lacking in exclusives two months into its lifecycle. Mario Kart 8 was a big hit for Wii U when it released in 2014, and now the acclaimed title makes the leap to Switch. While remastered games are rarely the most anticipated releases on any system, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe includes myriad important improvements and adds portability to create the definitive version of an already great game.

There's a good variety to the included modes in Titanfall 2, even though the co-op-focused Frontier Defense mode or some other, similar cooperative experience didn't make the transition over from the previous game. It's got a smattering of objective-based modes and a handful that simply focus on being good at shooting down enemies. The catch is that most of these modes don't have any AI combatants in them. That might seem like a weird thing to miss, but having some fodder in the maps gives you something to do as you're running back to the conflict after a respawn. Considering the maps are large enough to contain a full set of on-foot pilots and titans at the same time, sometimes you find yourself running a little longer than you'd like just to see another player. So that lack of AI--the game's Attrition mode still has them in place--ends up making those maps occasionally feel empty and a bit lifeless.

Robo Recall gives players a degree of tactical flexibility not usually present in light-gun shooters. Yes, you can settle for shooting enemies if you’re boring. You can also warp to them, reach out and grab a handle middle of their chest, and bash them into the ground over and over again before you roll the corpse into another robot like a bowling ball. If you’re standing in front of an enemy shooting bullets or shells at you, you can bat the bullets back or pick them out of the air and drop them to the ground. You can also pick enemies up and use them as shields, or take the weapon from their hands and use it to blow them away.

This is the contradictory engine that drives most of Homefront: The Revolution, and it encapsulates the game’s failed attempt to treat bleak problems of an alternate history America with simple, mechanical solutions. Homefront is a game that's more interested in telling you how grim things are than it is in showing you what makes your circumstances so dire, and rarely finds way to include you in its key moments of storytelling.

The game board of ES:L is arranged into two lanes, the normal and the shadow. Everything happens normally on the standard lane, but units deployed to the shadow lane operate under the cloak of darkness for a turn, and can’t be attacked by enemy units. Lanes allow you to play units that are more fragile or need time to set up with some safety, and add an element of strategy to things instead of just dumping all your critters in one giant pool. 

The closest I ever came to actual death in No Man's Sky was on the planet @MOUNTENNUI. A mountainous planet with minimal wildlife, @MOUNTENNUI was a rock I almost bolted from moments after touching down. It was only because I noticed an unfamiliar object near my landing point that I stayed. Vortex Cubes. I'd never seen these on a planet before. As far as I knew, they only existed as rare, valuable items you could buy on the open trading market. Here they were, not in great quantities, but enough that it was worth my while to snag a few. The one thing I hadn't counted on was the sentinels.

The combat system is easily the highlight, working as a solid foundation for the rest of the diverse modes. It’s a 3D action/fighting hybrid that slashes its own unique path; the warriors have a variety of different weapons, including poison-tipped spears, battleaxes, and katana, but the fundamentals are the same regardless. Your hero can hold his or her weapon in three directional positions, for either attacking or defending. Switching positions is as simple as locking onto your opponent and moving the right analog stick. Add in feints, parries, block-breakers, and unique movesets, and you have a robust melee toolset.

The only way to share levels with friends is to do it locally or through Street Pass. Exchanging levels with the person standing next to you is easy and quick. Sharing this way does not require you to beat the levels, which means you can send your friend an impossible undertaking. Challenging your friends with difficult levels was a highlight on the Wii U version; knowing a level could be completed was an important factor in sharing levels, and to see that requirement axed is another head-scratching limitation. The lack of online sharing theoretically encourages local collaboration, but I don’t enjoy trading levels back and forth to make changes. This new system makes it feel like I am passing along an unfinished painting, rather than a masterpiece meant to be appreciated.

Too often, puzzle games draw players in with mechanics that are easy to wrap your head around, but by the time you reach the end, it overly complicates the formula you originally fell in love with. Within moments of loading into each puzzle in Snipperclips, I was able to understand what my ultimate objective was. Cutting your player character down to either match a particular shape or form a tool needed to achieve a solution is gratifying from the moment you hear the clipping sound, but it's this simplicity that makes Snipperclips an enjoyable puzzler from start to finish.

I never felt more alone than I did on the planet @UtilityLimb. At this stage of my journey, I'd never been to a harsher place. Impossibly massive cliffs jutted up all around, offering sheer drops into small pools of putridly hot water. Huge storms that almost completely killed visibility beyond a few feet in front of me rolled in regularly, kicking up purple dust clouds that made the environment look like an early Nintendo 64 game. The only life I ever found were a few out-of-place-looking cow creatures, and a small number of pulsating shrimp things that swam around those tiny pools of water. Of the precious few stations I found, all were empty of life. No one existed on this bizarre, horrible place.

If you have a PSVR, I’d highly recommend playing at least some of the game with it (ideally, the first couple of hours). After a few hours, I decided to take the headset off and play the traditional way. The game’s visuals look noticeably better on a television screen, and I did prefer to comfortably sit on a couch rather than have a bulky headset and headphones on. VR in this game is a highly effective gimmick, but the additional scare factor was beaten out by overall comfort in the end. I say “comfort” in regards to the headset itself, as I never felt sick to my stomach or dizzy while playing on the default settings, even during my initial three-hour extended session. I appreciated the variety of options for those that want to play in VR, including the ability to change the turning degree angle of the right analog stick (the only time I felt odd was when I tested the “smooth” turning option). If you don’t mind wearing a headset for an extended period of time, you should be able to tweak the VR settings to your liking.

In Thimbleweed Park [official site], few things are what they appear to be. The game, which reunites Ron Gilbert with his Maniac Mansion co-designer Gary Winnick, is a point and click comedy-mystery that looks like a relic from the past. Or, more accurately, like memories of the past; it has handsome lighting and a level of visual detail that actually fills in the blanks that memory often papers over., Attractive as it is, should such pixels please your eye, it’s the quality of the story and the puzzles that really count. On one of those fronts, Thimbleweed eventually finds a way to go above and beyond anything I expected from it, but the combination of broad jokes and mystery-thriller sometimes creates confusion and frustration in both the narrative and the puzzling along the road., , The first hour or two were equal parts a pleasant return to the comfort zone of point and click puzzling, and a sense that things were just a little too comfortable in Thimbleweed Park. The writing, in those early stages, has to do a lot of work, introducing lots of characters (five of them playable, eventually) and fleshing out the backstory of the town. The setting seemed muddled, with references to an all-powerful pillow factory magnate and ever-present vacuum tubes running everything from the crime-solving computers in the sheriff’s offices to the telephones and fire hydrants., , A town with a pillow factory as its most magnificent achievement, inspiring awe in the residents, falls dangerously close to precisely the kind of zany humour that makes me cringe. A pillow factory, it seems, is funny because pillows are funny and not the sort of thing that impresses anyone in the real world. And two of the first characters you meet, the sheriff and coroner, share a similar sprite and the same voice actor using a different comedy speech pattern for each. It’s oh so wacky., It’s easy to forget, as all of these daft characters and situations pile up, that Thimbleweed begins with a corpse. The sinister and mysterious aspects are quickly buried underneath a deluge of daft references and conversations that meander without doing very much to build the world, establish interesting characters or elaborate on the strong opening mystery. It seems to be a murder mystery in which nobody cares about the murder because they’re so intent on performing their comedy routines., , And then there is an actual comedy routine, delivered in flashback by Ransome the Clown. I’ve written about Ransome before and I’m pleased to report that he continues to be a horrible delight right up until Thimbleweed’s final moments, but it’s his first appearance in that flashback that stabilised the game for me. Partly, it’s because Ransome is an easy character to understand – a jerk who gets his comeuppance – but it’s mostly because the flashback is a self-contained setting that allows the story to find its focus., Because Thimbleweed quickly opens up, allowing any character to go to (almost) any location, the story isn’t told as efficiently as it could be were the structure more linear. To begin with you have just two characters to control, but they’re interchangeable, with one unifying motive and objective, and their own ulterior motives that remain hidden in the early stages. The three flashbacks, each of which introduces a new playable character, are useful anchors or punctuation, breaking the game into more manageable slices., , It’s odd to think of pacing as a problem in a point and click game, but more than anything else that’s what I struggled with in the opening hours. My interest was in solving a murder, but the game’s interest was in explaining exactly what Thimbleweed park is, from the pillow factory to the occult bookstore to the haunted hotel. It’s a complex place and not all of the individual parts and people gel together to give a sense of precisely why it is such a strange little ghost town., That all settles down though and even if the bigger questions are left dangling until the final chapters, the town does start to cohere. It’s an odd place but its oddities – even the pillow factory and those vacuum tubes – are more than throwaway jokes or convenient and welcome puzzling short-hand (the tubes become a shortcut for many tasks that require a device to be repaired, so you don’t need to worry about carrying all manner of tools around)., , There are throwaway jokes everywhere though and even the ones that got a laugh out of me sometimes felt like a distraction from the actual mystery portion of the game. Where the comedy and mystery elements are intertwined, they work fantastically well, and the humour doesn’t shy away from the story’s darker threads. Curses, death, loss, murder, families torn apart, anxiety, despair – individual lines and scenes are cheery and light-hearted, but the overall tone is rarely frivolous., But Gilbert and his team have other plates to spin: Kickstarter rewards in the form of answering machine messages (and a stacked phonebook of names and numbers corresponding to them) and library books, and more in-jokes and callbacks than comfortably fit within the framework of the story. When you’re searching for a clue to advance the case, all of those names, numbers and allusions become an extra layer of noise to navigate. , , Is a number mentioned in a journal actually important or is it a pop culture reference? Is a witty line about the idiosyncracies of point and click adventures actually a hint about the conventions and how to break them, or simply…a witty line? It can be hard to cut through the sheer volume of asides and one-liners to find the clues that actually matter. To be clear, this isn’t a problem throughout the entire game, but one of the lead characters is an adventure game designer and an important location contains a Comic Con style ThimbleCon; that character and setting occasionally turn the volume up to eleven, though Delores (the game designer) swiftly became my favouite person in Thimbleweed. But, still, I never want to hear another line about the shame of working in the games industry. In my chosen, that’s unlikely. , Almost as soon as all of the characters were in play and the whole of Thimbleweed County was open for exploration, I settled into the game’s groove. Pacing was no longer a problem because I almost always had two or three major puzzles to chip away at, meaning I could turn away from one and to another if I got stuck. Eventually, of course, you hit bottlenecks, having solved all but one puzzle that will advance the story, but despite all of the distractions mentioned above, the world does have a strange but consistent logic. There wasn’t a single solution that felt unjustified and the couple of times I resorted to trial and error, the way forward I eventually stumbled across always made sense in retrospect., , And when the characters are allowed to show their personalities and their past rather than acting as vessels for joke-delivery, they’re a fascinating bunch, with excellent voice acting. I particularly like Ray and Reyes, the agents. Ray rolls her eyes and treats Thimbleweed’s silliness with utter disdain – a much-needed voice of caustic reason – and Reyes is nervous and naive in a way that immediately made me suspicious. Everyone in Thimbleweed is an unreliable narrator and even though you’re controlling these people, you aren’t actually being them; their secrets remain their own, until they choose to reveal them., I could quibble (am am going to, clearly) about how the player characters don’t actually speak to one another, except on are scripted occasions, and can’t share information effectively. How Delores can give Reyes an item that helps to resolve his entire storyline but that he is oblivious to it. How I never want to ride an elevator again because the wait between floors feels eternal when you’re struggling to figure out a puzzle. How some of the actual rules of being a ghost don’t seem entirely consistent. I’ve made notes about so many things that made me frown, but they don’t add up to more than one big frown, and it’s countered by the much bigger grin I had for the back half of the game (it took me sixteen hours to finish and I only got properly stuck a couple of times)., , This has been a tricky review to write because some of the things that I love about Thimbleweed will almost certainly be off-putting to other people, and some parts that fell flat might well be your favourite moments. It’s a dense game, which means that if one joke fails to land, there’s almost certainly a follow-up that just might, hot on its heels. The bigger picture – which I’m unwilling to reveal because this begins as a whodunnit but eventually becomes a whatisit – ties everything together, making a tidy package of all the loose threads and awkward gags. , I thoroughly enjoyed most of the journey, despite a few unhappy detours, but the ending brought everything together in a way that didn’t just resolve the characters’ individual stories in a satisfying way, but found the emotional beat at the heart of their investigations. Not in every case, but certainly with three of the five. Though it rushes to its conclusion once the cat is out of the bag and I was a little let-down by the way smaller mysteries are absorbed into the Big Question raised in the final act (though hinted at previously), Thimbleweed’s final moments made me sad to say goodbye. Properly sad, with the suggestion of a little sniffle and everything. I suspect that ending will be divisive. Some people will make like Ray and roll their eyes., , By the end, all of my earlier frustrations didn’t seem to matter, though it’s important to remember that they absolutely did at times during the hours I was playing, and if I was disappointed at all it was because Thimbleweed Park doesn’t pack more emotional punches into its running time. As the individual stories play out, Ransome and Delores in particular show that Gilbert and his team care for their characters and their disappointments. This is more recognisably the work of writers who showed empathy for Guybrush and Elaine and their dreams than the people who brought us insult swordfighting. , At the beginning of the game, I’d hoped to solve a mystery and have a few laughs, but now I miss the company of this little crew. It’s a smart game though and a thoughtful one, even if it sometimes hides those qualities behind its clown makeup and a beaglepuss. The final puzzle sequence in particular shows just how long a game Terrible Toybox have been playing with the design. It’s a callback that works as more than a joke. At their worst, the many adventure game references feel almost apologetic, as if the game isn’t entirely confident in its own skin, but as it moves toward an ending, it embraces its own oddities and past in a way that left me entirely satisfied., , And for all of that that, I can forgive a few too-vague clues and the jokes that fell flat. It’s a beautiful game as well, the non-interactive foregrounds adding as much life to the world as the backgrounds. Even the old-school verb system, which I was wary of, doesn’t get in the way, with a right click always picking the most sensible options, and others existing for laughs or mild experimentation. Oh, and before I leave you, one piece of advice that might save you some time: as soon as one character has a map, the rest can collect one from an obvious place. Don’t do what I did and spend precious time sprint-clicking around the world.

Final Fantasy XV is unlike any RPG or open-world experience I’ve played before. It succeeds and struggles in finding its unique stance, but a few problematic designs don’t hold it back from being a hell of a journey. Just days after playing it, I find myself reflecting on it fondly. The thoughts of that damn car are recessed and blanketed by Noctis’ journey and some of the stunning moments that unfolded within it. I wasn’t a fan of Final Fantasy XIII’s sequels, but I hope Square returns with another XV or a similarly designed sequel to iron out the rough spots. There’s a solid foundation here that begs to be explored further.

Frank’s new exosuit is one of the game’s back-of-the-box selling points, and it’s a nice addition to his arsenal. These military suits let him hit harder and run faster, providing a brief-but-satisfying feeling of near-invincibility. Battery life is woefully short on these things, however, making them more of a temporary power-up than anything else. You can also upgrade them in silly ways, such as combining the suit with a frozen-drink dispenser, which allows you to hurl tornadoes that turn vast multitudes of zombies into undead popsicles. I get a kick out of these fleeting moments of raw power – getting a 3,000-hit combo in the exosuit is easily within reach – but finding them and a suitable upgrade opportunity is disappointingly rare. For a game that’s otherwise so generous with giving players opportunities to feel powerful, it felt oddly restrictive.

Gears of War 4 is set years after the events of 3, where Marcus Fenix sat down, took his do-rag off, and made you think that the Locust threat was more or less over. Gears 4 puts you in the boots of Marcus' son, JD Fenix. It seems that the situation has changed since we last checked in on this universe, as the younger Fenix and his colleague Del have abandoned their post, left the Gears, and taken up with some "outsiders." The COG may have successfully fought off the Locust, but in the years that followed they seem to have become quite the oppressors themselves, with robots known as DBs doing most of the heavy lifting as they attempt to rebuild the planet and repopulate the race. It's politically muddy in ways that the previous trilogy would occasional hint at, but now you're seeing the effects of that trilogy spun out, 25 years later. It's a good swap that makes the good guys the bad guys, as the game opens with your crew of outsiders raiding a COG construction site.

A Fragmentary Passage isn't perfect, but I'm glad Square Enix included completely new content, and dressing up Aqua by completing challenges is a fun bonus. My Aqua ended up wearing Minnie Mouse ears and having a red-and-white dress with ribbons to match. At the end of the episode, a lengthy scene (presumably from Kingdom Hearts III) allows you to finally see the characters embark on the next part of their journey, which is really what we've been waiting all this time for – to see that Kingdom Hearts' plot is moving forward instead of explaining past elements.

All of the now expected multiplayer modes are available, from traditional team deathmatch, hardpoint, and kill confirmed to more exotic offerings like infected, gun game, or defender, where players attempt to hold a ball in a lethal game of keepaway. Tired of getting shot in the back after you spawn? Try Frontline, which has fixed spawn locations. Whatever your playstyle, there’s a mode for you, and we’re almost at the point where I think there may be too many game modes if we keep going – Infinite Warfare might be at the perfect temperature in terms of options.

Once you identify a faction head of a region, disrupting the target’s operation becomes the primary objective. Each boss serves a different role in the organization, which affords Wildlands a diverse array of missions. During my 50-plus hours, I kidnapped a famous narco-corrido, destroyed submarines carrying cocaine to the United States and Europe, played cartel members against one another, and burned cocaine warehouses worth billions of dollars. The thematic diversity helps mask the fact that a large degree of missions essentially boil down to clearing or infiltrating bases of various sizes.

Nier: Automata also has problems with repetition, an issue that plagued its predecessor. The story is stretched over three campaigns that send you back to the same areas, and even the exact same story moments and encounters. How and why this happens is one of Nier: Automata’s surprises, so I won’t ruin it, but don’t be fooled when the credits roll. While this unfolding narrative and its hidden endings is an interesting experiment, it spreads the world too thin and doesn’t add enough new information when you revisit familiar situations. By the time I reached the true ending after nearly 40 hours (and most of the side quests), I felt like I only saw about 25 hours worth of game cut up and reconstituted in various ways.

The nuts and bolts of the latest Deus Ex game probably won't surprise you at this point. It has the things you expect from this kind of action/stealth role-playing hybrid, like skill trees that make you better at hiding from enemies, or abilities that let you speech-check your way through encounters that might otherwise turn violent. It also wraps its story in the familiar trappings of conspiracy, name-dropping "the Illuminati" like that's something you could just say with a straight face in 2016. Or 2029, as the case may be. Deus Ex: Mankind Divided is a sharp, exciting action-adventure game that feels good and tells a decent, if somewhat shallow tale.

I constantly wanted to see what Owlboy would show me next, but I lingered on a few side activities, too. Rings and coins are scattered all throughout the world, and collecting them lets you upgrade your weapons and wear silly hats once you cross once you've collected enough coins. You can also seek out a couple of more well-hidden secrets. Seeking out coins is worthwhile, since the weapon upgrades are more powerful, and one side quest offers a bit more backstory.

Remakes and rereleases of classic games have been so numerous in recent years that they’ve become a running joke. Whether it’s an HD shine on Twilight Princess, a remaster of a Resident Evil remake, or one of many trilogies and game collections, the current generation of consoles have no drought of material for those wanting a reason to play old games. Insomniac’s newest offering lies a bit outside of this trend, however. Ratchet & Clank (2016) offers far more than a simple remaster, but also isn’t slavish enough to its film tie-in to make fans of the series feel short-changed. This a fully featured reimagining of the 2002 original, with tweaks and additions that help tie it into the movie. Most importantly, it manages to do this all while feeling like a modern gameplay experience and retaining the chaotic fun the series has been known for all these years.

In addition to the core game, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe includes all of the downloadable content released for the Wii U version. This means you can tackle the Animal Crossing track as Link on the Master Cycle, or unlock Mercedes-Benz kart components for Dry Bowser and race on the simple-but-awesome Excitebike course. With 48 race tracks, 8 battle arenas, 5 difficulty settings (including mirror and the furious 200cc), and 42 characters to choose from, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is a behemoth package.

Plenty of open world games allow you to explore the entire map at your leisure, but Hyrule’s landscape and Link’s ability to climb makes for more rewarding exploration than I’ve ever seen in the genre. Most of the world isn’t accessible by easy-to-follow roads and waypoints. I spent many hours exploring off the beaten path, gliding across canyons, and scaling mountains. Some of these peaks seem insurmountable at first, but the summit can usually be reached if you’re smart about looking for places to rest and get a quick stamina recharge. When things go wrong, it often ends with Link ragdolling down the side of a rocky cliff. When they go right, there’s frequently a secret, a new vantage point for spotting shrines, or at least a beautiful view awaiting you.

Every week we warp Brendan into the gaseous caverns of early access to see if he can find precious games worth playing in the gloom. This time, the subterranean space colonisation of Oxygen Not Included [official site], Everything is covered in piss. When I branded my new space colony ‘Yellow Water Station’ I did so because I was prompted to come up with a suitable name for a settlement on the interstellar frontier. But all I could think of was how weird it is that astronauts drink their own recycled and purified urine. ‘Yellow Water Station’ was my puerile attempt at humour. I didn’t expect the new underground village I was building to accept its new moniker with such enthusiasm. Now everything is covered in piss, poisonous red gas is building up in the sleeping quarters, and there’s a dead body at the bottom of one of the aquifers.

As you level up between runs, you unlock equippable perks and permanent upgrades that take some of the edge off. Some simply boost your stats, but others offer larger gunshots, a healing item between levels, or a one-time revive. These perks make progress much easier, and should give anyone the tools they need to make it through the harrowing trials later on; without spoiling too much, I was able to outlast the final boss by simply standing there and shooting at him, since I invested heavily in health. That anti-climactic ending came after a long streak of successes I didn’t think I had in me, though, and I was still pumping my fist when the credits rolled.

Players select an avatar and then venture through a variety of game modes. You can change your avatar at any time, and it’s more than just a visual – your “random” card rewards will be influenced by your race. Card-game veterans will gravitate toward ladder-climbing through the ranks of each ranked season and the arena, ES:L’s form of limited/draft play. 

I’ll avoid open spoilers here (you can find those, and our thoughts on them, here, if you’re so minded), but suffice it to say that the final act of Resident Evil 7 Biohazard [official site] is not the equal of the claustrophobic cat and mouse chase/escape room mash-up that makes the rest of the game such a terrifying triumph. It is, then, a relief to find that the first two rounds of DLC, now available on PC after temporary PlayStation imprisonment, broadly mark a return to what made the Baker house such a successful reinvention of the Resi formula., , I’ll do this as set of capsule reviews, seeing as the DLC is divided into, essentially, mini-games. It’s also currently sold in two parts, unless you splurged on the season pass, known as Banned Footage Volume 1 and Volume 2. Annoyingly, both have exceptional elements and both have entirely disposable elements, so there’s no easy ‘buy this one over the other one’ answer here., The £8 pack comprises…, Nightmare, , You know how all the routine monster-shooting was the best bit of Resi 7? No, me either. Anyway, this is that, framed within a wave-based survival structure. I guess it’s for people who felt the pace of Resi 7 was too slow and not Resident Evilly enough. It’s the no-brainer inclusion, but exactly the sort of thing one would expect to find as a bonus mode in the main game, rather than as part of a paid add-on. It’s fine for what it is, sure, but it’s the exact opposite of what makes Resi 7 Resi 7., Ethan Must Die, , Something of a hybrid of the better elements of the Resi 7 main campaign and Nightmare above, this is a combat-focused remix of some sections of the Baker house, culminating in a boss fight. Consciously brutally hard, its entails gradually building up your arsenal and scavenging for resources that, unlike in the main game, are randomly-placed to some degree. It’s more interesting than Nightmare for sure, and likely to be of particular appeal to those who immediately replayed the campaign on Madhouse difficulty after completing it once, but I want to be surprised rather than face trial by fire, hence didn’t stick with this for long., Bedroom, , The clear highlight of the first bundle, this takes the Saw torture-puzzle ethos of the Lucas section of the campaign and pairs it with the bio-horror and intense menace of the Jack and Marguerite parts. , It’s a prequel to the main story, and shows us more of what happened to Clancy, the doomed cameraman seen in one of the found footage tapes (and the demo). He awakens in one of the bedrooms, chained to the bed and with a rictus-grinning Marguerite delivering some unspeakably foul broth for him to eat. Then she leaves, at which point you can attempt to make your escape by finding, combining and deciphering items within the room. However, certain of your efforts trigger her to return, activating a short window of time in which you must attempt to conceal all evidence of your incomplete breakout. , It’s a fabulous idea, playing with the memorisation challenges that have long been part and parcel of Resi games, but making them a logical part of the dark fantasy. Even though, by now, Marguerite should be a known quantity, the terror of her impending approach, followed by her suspicious checking of the room to see if anything is out of order, is right up there with Resi 7’s heaviest-hitting moments of terror. , Sadly it’s all too brief and only stands up to one playthrough, realistically. I’d definitely be up for a dedicated bundle of a half dozen vignettes like this, though. It utilises and clearly understands exactly what it has in Resi 7’s best element – the twisted Baker family – and keeps its hands clean of the excess that characterises Resi 7’s final act. , The £12 pack comprises…, Jack’s 55th Birthday, , I’m in two minds about this one. On the one hand, a comic-toned time attack affair feels vaguely in keeping with the kind of bonus modes of Resis yore, although once again it’s uncomfortable to find it in a paid add-on rather than unlocked at the end of the main game. On the other hand, this treats Resi 7’s most unsettling character, Jack Baker, as essentially farcical. Every time we see Jack in the light, his powers are weakened. Even within this DLC package, we have a mode in which Jack is supposed to be terrifying, so turning him into a hungry lump in a party hat here is a risky gambit., But it works, more or less. You, as Mia, have to dash around various parts of the Baker house, trying to find food for Jack before the timer expires. You’ll run into increasing numbers of Resi 7’s disposable monsters as you do (many in funny hats themselves), and there’s a vaguely Call of Duty: Zombies structure here, whereby there’s limited ammo and you gradually unlock more weapon types as you play. , It’s all very silly and entirely throwaway, but there is an appropriate edge of mania to it, as an otherwise stationary Jack slams his fists on the table and demands more, while you sprint about, terrified not of the monsters themselves, but of the delay they represent. Something of the sadism of the Bakers glints through the broad comedy. On the other hand, it misses a key trick by making the food you have to find entirely ordinary, rather than the tubs of unspeakable parts that we are treated to distressing close-ups of elsewhere in Resi 7., Daughters, , The centrepiece of Banned Footage 2 and, realistically, of the whole DLC boogaloo to date. Daughters is mini-campaign, set before the events of Resi 7 proper. You should not play it if you haven’t finished the main campaign, and to even talk about it, I need to do this:, SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS, The thrust of Daughters is witnessing the transformation of the Bakers from more-or-less happy family and into the monsters we know and fear. We see their kindness as they bring Eveline in from the storm, we show their rickety home before it’s coated in a patina of absolute filth, and we see Zoe’s terror as her beloved parents mutate into twisted horrors. This DLC very much capitalises on Resi 7’s strongest elements, which is to say the mingled terror and tragedy of the Baker parents. , However, it also shines unfortunate light on some of Resi 7’s weaker aspects, as well as revealing a game that’s beginning to strain against the limits of its simple systems. Playing as an as-yet infection-free Zoe, your goal is to escape the house while evading your newly-superpowered parents. Though this marks a welcome return to the paranoia and mostly combat-free early hours of Resi 7, it also means a less welcome to its rather arbitrary stealth systems, where success can depend on enemies inexplicably not seeing you when you’re three feet away but failure can result from a total inability to lean or peer and thus requiring sprints-of-faith. , Its multiple endings also depend on that other Resi 7 bugbear, only being allowed to pick up a handful of objects, and in this case the ‘true’ ending even hinges on finding and using those objects in a specific order. That’s fine in as much as it gives reasons to replay this 40-ish minute long tale a couple of times, but, coming off the back of the main campaign too, it makes Resi 7’s inner workings a little too obvious and a little too artificial now., Still, this is broadly an excellent extra slice of Resi 7, returning the Bakers to their deserved front-and-centre placement, making them menacing all over again – as well as their traditional jump-scare behaviour, they’re extra-monstrous because of how brutally they treat their own daughter. Given that this is the earliest moments of their transformation, we also get to see flashes of horror at their own behaviour, and it’s heartbreaking. Pointedly, Daughters fails to even mention the faintly tiresome Eveline backstory, keeping its focus tight on the Baker household. , Adam felt that Resi 7 itself did a fine job of conveying the tragedy and lost humanity of the Bakers, but I felt that was too little, too glibly. Daughters absolutely fixes that, but I can’t help but feel that it would have been far more valuable if included in the main campaign, as one of its flashback sequences, rather than a free-floating cast-off like this., 21, , After Marguerite in Bedroom and Jack in Birthday, sadistic son Lucas gets his turn in the sun. This is Blackjack by way of Saw, with you as long-suffering cameraman Clancy facing off against another Baker victim, Hoffman, in the playing cards version of Russian roulette. Whoever loses a round loses a finger, with further tortures introduced in later stages. It’s simple but effective, turning the inherent dilemma of whether to stick or draw as you try to stay under the magic 21 into something deeply traumatic. However, it’s diminishing returns following the gruesomeness of the finger-slicing initial stages, and there’s far too much sub-Joker prattle from Lucas, who remains the least compelling of the Baker clan. I think he wears his malevolence on his sleeve to his own detriment, whereas the fewer words and more opaque intent of his parents keep them deeply unsettling to the last. Still, this does a solid job of making a card game feel like a real part of the Resi 7 theme, and I enjoyed/was distressed by it far more than I’d expected., So, is all this worth twenty quid? I wouldn’t say so. You could blow through it all in three hours, and it’s unlikely that you’d play most of it ever again. The only elements of it that I’d say you even need to see are Bedroom and Daughters, but even those are one-shot affairs., However, given that the 25 quid season pass contains this and some as-yet unspecified further story-based DLC, it’s probably going to turn out to be better bang for your antique coin. What, in the main, all this has achieved is to restore the Bakers to a position of wildly menacing prominence, something that the closing hours of Resi 7 had unfortunately undermined, and for that I’m grateful.

The big challenge for the Gravity Rush series has been fitting structured objectives into all the falling and wondrous locales. Gravity Rush 2 gives you plenty to do, but many of the story and side missions make the experience feel dated. Escort, eavesdropping, and stealth missions abound, and they often have you sauntering around on-foot instead of flying high, which feels like a waste of your abilities. You also have a number of missions where you need to find a small object or person within a large area by using a photo as reference, as well as missions where you have to talk to people to have them point you in the right direction, which feel arbitrary and frustrating.

Wildlands is clearly designed for cooperative play, but you can also dismantle the cartel solo. Given the limitations of your control of A.I. companions, you can’t split your team up to employ more complicated strategies, but if you upgrade the sync shot ability, they serve as a great tool for thinning the enemy herd before you go in guns blazing. They stay out of trouble for the most part, and come to your rescue if you take one too many bullets.

The campaign, while relatively slight by comparison, is surprisingly engaging and helpful. It changes things up from level to level, working in the satisfying wall runs and platforming where appropriate to create sections that play more like little jumping challenges than your standard first-person shooter maps. The story is simple and, overall, parts of the game are a little disjointed, but it manages to pull together some decent characters, good voiceover performances, and fun little boss fights that actually help you get more comfortable with piloting a titan. The campaign also goes places, packing in some moments that manage to seem ridiculous as a part of this larger story while also feeling really great from a gameplay perspective. When the game does finally drop you into a large scenario full of titans on both sides of the conflict, it takes on the vibe of a pretty good action movie. It does a good job of making you seem smart when you're finding collectibles and tough when you're crushing your opposition. It's not super long, but it also doesn't dwell on any one type of gameplay for too long, either. It strikes a better balance than you might expect from a first-person shooter campaign, even if it sometimes comes across more like a bunch of disparate parts that were strung together with a story about a man and his giant robot suit hung around the edges.

While a revenge tale isn't new ground for storytelling, it still works for building up to key moments and making them relatable. Berseria is at its best when it shows the reasoning behind your allies' actions and developing them in interesting ways. For instance, watching one character who didn't have free will slowly turn into his own person is a highlight. You have a lot scenes and dialogue to shift through, and it's a slow burn, but it's worth it for how it all comes together. I wasn't even sure how I felt about the cast for the first 10 hours of the game, but the payoff is in how they grow and change.

Full Throttle shines because of its interesting cast of characters and well-paced story. Though a full playthrough will only take you four to five hours, the characters are given plenty of time to shine, including our laconic hero Ben, the kind-but-determined Maureen, and the villainous Ripburger (voiced wonderfully by Mark Hamill). The plot doesn’t veer into unexpected territory outside of some sequences near the tail end, but the characters are so endearing that it doesn’t matter. I enjoyed revisiting Ben and Maureen’s “will they or won’t they?” relationship and Ripburger’s bumbling henchman so much it didn’t matter how conventional the story of Ben’s quest for revenge was. The line-by-line writing is strong enough to make everyone compelling from beginning to end, even if they’re largely archetypical.

Setting aside the quality of the game, ReCore at least serves as an encouraging start for Microsoft's "Play Anywhere" initiative that will get you access to both Xbox One and Windows 10 versions of all first-party games from now on. In contrast to the much-maligned Games for Windows Live, it was a cinch to download ReCore and launch it from the Start menu, no extra login or overlay nonsense required. The game ran beautifully on PC, detected my Xbox One controller, unlocked the same achievements (although I never got any notifications for them), automatically switched to headphones when I plugged them into the controller's headphone jack; it pretty much delivered the seamless convenience of a console once I was in-game. The game's incredibly long loading times and shoddy frame rate on Xbox One make the PC version your best bet if you have a decent system, actually. It's too bad Microsoft couldn't manage to launch this effort with a more complete game than ReCore, although this positive first experience bodes exceedingly well for Forza Horizon 3 and Gears of War 4 in a few weeks.

What the Nintendo Wii lacked in horsepower, it made up for with a secret weapon: Wii Sports, a collection of simple mini-games that were so fun they had players around the globe chucking Wii remotes through their televisions. Wii Sports didn't just sell the potential of motion controls; it became synonymous with the Wii itself and fueled the system's stellar sales. 1-2-Switch is the Bizarro World incarnation of Wii Sports – a bush-league collection of gimmicks that fails spectacularly at selling the new capabilities of Nintendo's hybrid console. You may still throw your Switch controller at your TV, but for entirely different reasons.

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Wildlands is probably only worth caring about if you're willing to play through the game with three friends, with voice chat enabled. You should know that up front. You can, of course, enter into public matchmaking. In fact, the game constantly encourages you to do so. But in my experience, playing with strangers, without voice chat, is probably the worst way to play Ubi's new cocaine mountain simulator. Single-player's also an option, and can be fun for a time, but the three AI-controlled squadmates they give you are intensely overpowered and a little boring to use. Leaning into the multiplayer aspect is probably the only way players will feel like they're getting their money's worth here.

It turns out The Show has nothing to hide. The new diversions – as enjoyable and varied as they are – pale in comparison to the action on the field. The Show has always strived for realism, and this year’s game adds even more nuance and unpredictability to the mix. Most notably, the robotic instincts of players are reduced, and outcomes of swings aren’t determined mostly by dice rolls.

I enjoyed my time with the first Halo Wars, so I’m glad that Microsoft took a chance with a sequel. Unfortunately, aside from Blitz, I don’t feel like Creative Assembly pushed the envelope. Simplified base building, smaller maps, and outdated level design keep Halo Wars 2 for achieving great heights. However, if you loved the first Halo Wars, this entry delivers more of the same.

In classic Resident Evil fashion, the house's architecture doesn’t make a lick of sense. The player is forced to hunt down keys, find animal-shaped objects to insert into mechanical devices, and scour the environment high and low to find healing items and ammo. You even find yourself thinking long and hard about inventory management every step of the way, questioning when to bring extra firepower, healing items, or that damn crank that somehow makes it into every Resident Evil game. Again, this sounds tedious, but it isn’t. It just makes you nervous about your odds and readiness for the next step of the game.

That’s the key difference between Rise & Shine and other games that revel in player death like Dark Souls or Ninja Gaiden. In those titles, you learn something from each death, and apply that knowledge to improve your next attempt. That happens here to a minor extent, but the element of chance plays a heavier role. You can only learn so much about the enemy configurations before you just need them to not converge in a particular way, especially in the final sections. Without escalating depth or twists on the gameplay, I never felt skilled when I won a hard battle. I only felt lucky.

This narrative-driven adventure draws players in by allowing them to explore the town of Possum Springs and reconnect with Mae’s past. Upon her return, she begins to notice ominous happenings that tie into the ghostly folklore of the town, and soon her and a group of friends set out to find the truth. This tale unfolds gradually as players establish a daily in-game routine – interacting with friends, venturing into town, causing trouble – but Night in the Woods rewards your patience as it gradually brings the threads together.

While the combat and enemies are the omnipresent highlights of the game, the same cannot be said for the environments. Despite a few great locales, the overall scenery looks too much the same, with area recycling and repurposing. The environments also represent a real hazard to the player almost all the time. With pits of poison, trap doors, spike pits, rolling boulders, and roof spiders waiting to pounce, death waits around every corner – and dying simply because you couldn’t see it coming is frustrating. While you begin to check around every corner for the inevitable ambush and groan because every single room has a ranged bomb-thrower or cannon-sniper, some of the labyrinthine castles and dungeons are overly sadistic in their construction, as if a cackling developer is quietly watching and snickering as bats fly out of a cave, throwing you off a cliff.

At its fearful root, there’s something hopeful about “if only.” It suggests improvement is possible. And so, I find myself wanting to say my own versions of the phrase. There’s that one striking image in Homefront: The Korean airship, its curved back and sharp nose, a shark skimming a scorched city skyline, a thing of mobile death. And it’s so hard not to say: If only Homefront could do justice to that image. But ‘doing justice’ requires more than one great effort, one great image.

I changed my tune on one of my favorite areas by the end of it. The haunted hotel isn’t combat-heavy, and focuses more on puzzle solving. I enjoyed trying to hunt down a collection of Toad ghosts so that they could organize a tea party. This area has several clever puzzles, and the reduced focus on combat was really helping me spend time with the things I liked about the game. When I was down to the last Toad that I had to collect, a grandfather clock rang and I was met with a game over screen. It had failed to adequately explain to me that there was a time limit for this area, and I was forced to start over from the beginning.

My team ended up having Reggie Jackson, Jeff Bagwell, and Javier Báez in the lineup. If that doesn’t scream “awesome” to baseball fans, few things will. Again, cards aren’t delivered fast enough, and that dark cloud of “pay-to-win” hangs over the collecting. Thankfully, you still don’t need to spend a dime to excel at Conquest mode, Diamond Dynasty’s most enjoyable avenue of play.

If you know Drawn To Death as "that notebook game," then congratulations: You've identified the one thing that truly makes the four-player online arena shooter stand out. While the student-doodle aesthetic is certainly novel, it takes its toll on the gameplay. At best, the on-screen action is muddled by sparsely detailed visuals and ugly HUD. At worst, it's a literal eyesore that leaves you with a headache. Nevertheless, Drawn To Death doubles down on the angsty teen concept with buckets of immature gags and insults, and from there it's a race to see what makes you stop playing first.

A few days before Christmas, I was involved in a car accident. No-one was seriously hurt, but I spent 90 minutes stood alone on a central reservation, shaking from both cold and shock, watching car after car after car nearly collide with my own wrecked and dangerously stranded vehicle, waiting for police who never came. I called twice. Both times I was told they’d be right there. They did not show (FYI roadside recovery did eventually, an hour after their ETA). I was as furious as I was terrified., 15 minutes with 911 Operator [official site] was all it took to entirely sympathise with why they didn’t send a car out. , The rule here is “if nobody’s dying, there’s no hurry”. Squad cars, ambulances and fire engines – the holy rescue trinity in this emergency services strategy game – are forever at a premium. Dispatch one to help resolve a situation that is, at the time of a call, bloodless and there’s every chance you’ll find you can’t send anyone to help an even more serious situation. Or it’s simply that all your cars are on other, non-lethal calls, so whichever unforunate just dialled up simply has to wait. , , Maybe all the police in Dartford were in a stand-off with armed criminals when I called. Maybe there was a particularly high number of disputes about trees growing into neighbour’s yards. Maybe my story just didn’t meet the operators’ criteria for calamity. I mean, no-one did get hurt in the end. They made their judgement calls. Perhaps they were right. , But they could have been wrong, as I have been several times in 911 Operator. I told someone who asked for a pizza to stop wasting my time, failing to twig that they were pretending to the other, violent person in the room with them that this was the purpose of their call. They ended up in hospital. The next day, I was slightly more inquisitive about but ultimately again dismissive of a woman’s complaint about how loud her neighbour’s TV was, and only later did I find out it was because the man had died in his own living room. , , Judgement calls. 911 Operator is all about judgement calls. It’s a quiet revelation about scenarios I imagine most of us have suspected but never fully thought about. The other revelation is that initial panic and guilt about these kinds of situations soon gives way to cold utilitarianism. My thoughts shifted away from “I have to help this person” or “what if there’s more to this than meets the eye?” and into “well, nothing is obviously wrong, so I just can’t justify the units,” and increasingly I felt no remorse if an initially shrug-worthy situation had awful consequences. , If I’d have sent someone out there speculatively, I wouldn’t have been able to stop the sexual assault on the other side of town. I wouldn’t have been able to put out that fire in a parking garage. , 911 Operator succeeds more as thought experiment about this constant dilemma for emergency service workers than it does a game. As a game, it’s the same looped five minute experience, with varying degrees of pressure to it. You sit in front of a map of the city you’re playing in, choosing which emergencies to assign which vehicles to, interspersed with phone calls in which you need to elicit appropriate information – severity, location, possible escalations, if it’s a total idiot – in order to make your judgement call. , Some situations require multiple vehicles, some situations escalate even after you’ve arrived – your police need backup because someone starts shooting, or someone’s injured because you couldn’t get to them in less than a heartbeat – and some situations have to be abandoned because something more terrible has occurred elsewhere. , , Mostly, though, you’re just right-clicking to send a police car, ambulance or fire engine to a point on the map, and hoping nothing else goes wrong while you wait for them to get there. It’s compelling in small doses, but only a few hours in I’d taken its point to heart and struggled to see what else I might take from it. It’s definitely effective at creating tension, which I admire, but that tension grows increasingly one-note., There’s a meta-game that entails efficient, well-judged decisions gradually earning enough money to purchase more and better vehicles and ancillary equipment. Perhaps there’s commentary here about ruthless government/state restrictions on police budgets, but in a game context it came across like artificial gating. This’d be easy if I had a fleet of helicopters, but to get that I have to grind. , , The other big selling point here is that, as well as playing in a campaign mode that darts between various US cities, you can freeplay in any city from anywhere in the world, and a fair few small towns too. Unfortunately you’re stuck with US voices, equipment and terminology wherever you plump for – and indeed crimes. I can assure you that the only shootings in Pershore, Worcestershire involve poor wildfowl. , Localisation seems like the most obvious and necessary addition 911 needs to add in, if its current Steam sales hot streak lasts long enough. The other is that, though it’s briefly pleasing to see the more or less recognisable monochrome outline of my home city, you can’t zoom in to see street names or photographic imagery, so it might as well be anywhere. , The ‘what about… [pissant small town you grew up in]’ is a one-off delight that lasts only moments, but I can definitely see how this thing could evolve. That said, some of the crimes it features are horrific, and as such becoming too playful might become deeply inappropriate., , It’s a couple of evening’s worth of exploring a concept and buying a few upgrades for under a tenner. I don’t not recommend it on that basis – the single greatest thing about PC gaming is that it’s a medium which will explore every niche, and I was glad for a brief nose at this one. It is a bit crashy in its current form through, and that paired with the feeling that it needs a little more meat on its bones makes me more inclined to suggest waiting a month or two.

Captain Flinthook is a plucky space pirate who uses a grappling hook to board ships and search for treasure – as well as something more personal. Grappling points litter most rooms, the floors of which are often hazardous. Propelling and shooting through a room without touching the ground is usually difficult due to the number of spiked balls, lasers, and enemies you encounter, but the feeling of threading the needle and blasting apart every enemy in sight without a scratch never gets old.

Metafictional satire is one of Thimbleweed Park’s stronger points, but Terrible Toybox overuses clever jabs pointing out genre tropes over the course of the game. This muddles up the main storyline later on and creates plot holes, warping other aspects of the narrative to feel meaningless. At its best, Thimbleweed shakes things up in creative ways, building on its classic foundation and veering off in surprising directions; it asks you to leave the game to search elsewhere in order to solve a puzzle, and prompts you to save your progress before pushing a button that results in a game over. The latter is a brilliant, satirical take on dead-ends in adventure games, which Thimbleweed Park adamantly avoids.

Dishonored 2 successfully builds on the solid stealth-combat foundation of the original while introducing enough fun new gameplay concepts to feel fresh. Whether you prefer sticking to the shadows or gutting every co-conspirator in the land, the game offers a rewarding experience with attractive upgrade paths.  The narrative doesn’t match the high bar of the gameplay and world building, but Arkane Studios nonetheless delivers a must-play revenge tale among the best in its class.

Half-Genie Hero’s story is straightforward, with Shantae having to prevent bad things from happening, but the dialogue and characters make every conversation worth listening to. I was eager to talk to everyone and laughed often at characters poking fun at their own role in the narrative. This is the first Shantae game I have played, and I already feel a kinship to these previously established characters thanks to their wit.

The multiplayer feels rough because your character isn't resilient at all, so having three way-too-murderous AI companions with you almost feels like cheating. Multiplayer takes those companions away from you and replaces them with human players. Though the game gives you some ways to direct players to the same objective, like fast travel and map marking, the in-game communication tools aren't especially effective. Jumping into random games felt like four players off doing their own things at times, though without the benefit of having your AI crew along as backup. Bring together an agreeable bunch of players that you might like to communicate with, and the game ends up being more enjoyable... though some of that is almost certainly due to the idea that playing anything with friends leads to a better time. The game itself still feels a little flat, but since you're going to be shooting enemies and shooting the shit with your friends, you'll probably just skip the boring cutscenes and get on with it. Rolling around the map, plowing through missions together is actually a pretty decent time. The stakes feel a little higher, since you can't fall back on your invincible crew of murderers whenever things go wrong. And unlike your AI friends, your real-life friends can mess up and break stealth. The game feels little short on weird, open-world hijinks, but if you like taking over Far Cry-like outposts with a team of friends... well, that's pretty much this entire game.

That incredulity has built steadily in parallel to a ludicrous amount of hype in the years since. For every person pinning their dreams of "endless gameplay" in "the last game they'll ever play," there was another demanding to know "what you do" in the game, and casting doubts as to whether Hello Games could ever pull off what it was purporting to do. Normally as a critic I wouldn't care to mention the hype cycle any big game inevitably goes through, but that cycle is inextricably linked to No Man's Sky. So much of what has been wished upon it has informed the discourse around it. Though Hello Games' own messaging has been at best, muddled, and at worst, ultimately misleading--especially around the possibility of players finding each other in this huge universe--that messaging has also been largely drowned out by people projecting their own hopes and fears onto the game.

In trying to make The Devil’s Daughter a bigger game, Frogwares upped the amount of action, a costly move that, while making for more dynamic story moments, forces the player to endure half-baked minigames and overly long action sequences. In one moment, Holmes must outrun a hunter for what seems like an eternity, ducking behind boulders, trees, and even using his detective vision to uncover a safe rock path through a swamp. This sequence is silly, void of fun, and derails an otherwise awesome case. The same frustrations rise in a stealth sequence that is cool in concept, but couldn’t be much more frustrating in execution. Frogwares tries to add action wherever it could, and it just doesn’t pay off. The worst example is an intense moment where Watson is trying to revive a man through CPR that doubles as a rhythm minigame similar to Dance Dance Revolution. My connection to the world was lost in that instant, and I just sat back and laughed until the goofy sequence concluded.

Halo Wars 2 [official site] is undeniably a console RTS – a rare, exotic bird that looks a bit weird and could only have evolved on an island split off from the rest of the world. Removing it from its natural habitat and introducing it to the PC ecosystem, where its evolutionary niche isn’t quite so niche, might seem a little cruel and ill-conceived. But while it’s certainly not a perfect fit, it’s striking and, more often than not, quite a lot of fun. Here’s wot I think., , It’s been a long time since Halo Wars first graced the Xbox 360, but it’s been longer still for the game’s protagonists, the stalwart crew of the Spirit of Fire. They’ve been asleep for decades, only to return to a galaxy that’s changed. A post-Halo 5 galaxy. As Ron Perlman likes to remind us, however, some things never change; whatever else has happened while the crew have been sleeping, the Halo Universe still loves a good war. And so it is that the long lost Spartans and Marines find themselves embroiled in yet another conflict, even before they’ve wiped the sleep out of their eyes., , Remember the Brutes? The big gorilla-like aliens who served the Covenant? Well, they’ve rebelled, sent the Covenant packing, and their leader Atriox has claimed the Halo-building Ark as his new home. One ship stands in the way of his plans, and that’s enough to kick the plot into gear, even if I’ve either forgotten what those plans were or they were never clearly expressed in the first place. , Halo Wars 2 spins a yarn that’s pretty typical of the main series – some high concept ideas made a little rote by a very simple narrative. For all the weird super weapons, nature reserves floating in the heavens and super-smart AIs, the campaign mostly just focuses on humans fighting evil aliens. Again. And then it ends awkwardly and abruptly to set up a sequel. , This three act war takes more than a few ideas from its FPS counterpart, with its exceptional Blur-created cutscenes – stunning works of CG art – and story-driven missions. Each of these 12 battles feels distinct, too. Not to the extent of, say, StarCraft 2, but there’s enough of a mix so that the campaign doesn’t outstay its welcome. Most missions take between 20-30 minutes to complete, so it’s a brief campaign, but it’s blessed with solid pacing and a good mix of objectives and scenarios., , It’s also surprisingly welcoming to Halo newcomers. It really doesn’t matter if you haven’t been paying much attention to what has become a massive and rich universe, because the crew of the Spirit of Fire have been out of the loop for years. Between the crew itself getting up to speed and the unlockable snippets of lore, it’s easy to get a grip on what the hell an Ark is and why everyone’s so obsessed with the titular Halos. , Campaign highlights include fighting and even getting to control the ridiculously huge Scarab unit – one of two super units in the game – and giving orders to not one but three badass Spartans. The campaign is filled to the brim with thrilling, explosive moments, which almost makes up for some stinkers like holding an area for 30 minutes, which Creative Assembly seem to think is such a fun mission objective that they use it twice., Let’s get back to the Spartans. Even though they appear as teeny, tiny warriors here, they are every bit as impressive as the likes of Master Chief. Every unit, from the vehicle-pounding Cyclops to the speedy and iconic Warthog, gets a special ability on top of its primary fire mode. The Warthog, for instance, revs up and slams into enemies with satisfying kinetic force. The Spartans are special, however. They get two equally fancy powers., , The first Spartan ability allows them to leap into the air and crush units when they nail their landing. This also lets them quickly jump off cliffs, surprising their foes below. Target a vehicle with that leap, though, and the ability changes. Instead of smashing into the vehicle, they hijack it. Every vehicle apart from the aforementioned super units is vulnerable to their superior hacking skills, allowing them to flit around the battlefield inside everything from the spry Wraiths to huge mechs bristling with rocket launchers. They feel every bit like the super soldiers the FPS makes them out to be. , While the unit selection is strong and their abilities often flashy, Halo Wars 2 never really seems to care how you use them. There are counter units, support units, myriad upgrades, but fights mostly just come down to who has the biggest blob of scrappers. I mean, you can try to play tactically, and you’ll probably need to – at least a little bit – when facing human opponents, but even then it’s more about army composition rather than being the smarter commander. , Controlling the Spartans, and every other aspect of Halo Wars 2’s vibrant and colourful battles, can feel a little off at times. Even when using a mouse and keyboard, it’s clear that concessions have been made for controllers. Units can be ordered to move, attack and use their special ability, but there’s little of the extra layer of control you might expect from a PC RTS. Your units constantly need to be micromanaged, there’s no patrol or guard options, and they’re cursed with poor pathfinding. The AI isn’t a serious threat, mind, and replacing units is a doddle, so if you do lose track of them, it’s not the end of the world., , These limitations aren’t all bad, however. Being able to relax on the sofa while playing an RTS using a controller is an enjoyable novelty, for one, but even if you’re playing Halo Wars 2 like a traditional RTS, the restrictions sometimes create interesting strategic wrinkles. , Base building definitely falls into this category. Instead of being able to place structures and defences wherever you please, maps are littered with predetermined base locations for HQs and mini-bases. Once you construct one, extra nodes appear around them, and that’s where you’ll plonk down your resource harvesting buildings, unit production facilities and your turrets. It seems horribly restrictive at first, but I’m now pretty sold on the idea. , If you need more energy or supplies – the game’s two resources, which are only generated by buildings because there are no resource nodes – you can’t just build a new generator or depot whenever or wherever you want. If you’ve already got one of each, chances are that you’ll need to destroy a building to make room for an extra one. Or you’ll need to explore, hopefully finding a node where you can set up a smaller base. This forces commanders to plan ahead and be willing to make the occasional sacrifice while also making build orders more reactive. It also encourages aggression and boldness. When you run out of space, you’re probably going to need to steal it from your opponent, destroying one of their bases and then building on its ashes., , Maps tend to be compact areas, full of winding paths that end in open battlefields. Units don’t move swiftly, especially in groups where their speed always matches the most sluggish unit, but battles are frenetic affairs where victories happen quickly. Despite their pace, there are plenty of opportunities for shifts in dominance and nasty surprises, largely thanks to powerful leader abilities. These nifty skills can be used to heal groups of units, drop down turrets or extra squads like ODST troops, or carpet bomb an entire area. Smart use of these game-changers can decide the outcome of a fight, but they have long cooldowns, so you’ve got to pick your moments., While Halo Wars 2 has its fair share of multiplayer modes, often influenced by the FPS games, the standout is undoubtedly Blitz. It subtracts buildings and unit construction for pacy firefights over a trio of capture points, with troops and abilities being played via cards. It’s a deck-building game, then, with each faction and commander getting unique cards, as well as a few neutral ones. You need to fight over energy pods that fall from the heavens before spending that energy on new units and powers, so it’s not just a race to get to the capture points, but also battle over fleeting resources. , In the other modes, there’s little beyond aesthetics to make armies feel distinct, but in Blitz there are enough unique cards to make some pretty diverse loadouts. And of course there’s the randomisation factor, as you’re never quite know what your hand is going to be. There’s usually a decent mix of powers and units, though, and I’ve never been in a position where I didn’t have anything worth playing. It helps that you can burn a card – for a cost – and immediately get a replacement. Cards costs are also generally low enough that you can field a beefy force with powerful units after only a short time, letting you get right into the thick of things and enjoy the type of scraps that you’d have to wait much longer for elsewhere., , Blitz is also the one place in Halo Wars where it feels like you’re being rewarded for being a clever, sneaky bastard. Because I’d played through the whole campaign before jumping into Blitz, I’d gotten used to just stomping around maps with one giant army, but that doesn’t really work here. It’s also not a good idea to spread your forces out; you’ve got to stay mobile. , Recently, I’ve been saving up my energy and leaving a single, expendable unit on the far side of a point. When the enemy storms it, I drop some mines – if I have them – and then summon what is essentially a brand new army. Maintaining line of sight of the capture points turns out to be even more important than keeping them defended., Halo Wars 2 is simultaneously conservative and inventive. It’s definitely trying to evoke traditional RTS games – which is not entirely a bad thing given the recent dearth of them – especially when it comes to the campaign, but elements like base construction and Blitz mode make it stand out enough that it doesn’t feel like you’re just going through the motions for the hundredth time. A clumsy UI and weird, sometimes fixed, keybindings and controls reveal its console heritage, but there are a surprising number of benefits to that side of the design. Some of the places where the formula has been redesigned in order to appeal to the Xbox One crowd, and to fit a controller, are the points where Halo Wars 2 finds an identity of its own.

Co-op mode, a destination for many in the Wii U version, is gone for 3DS, but I didn’t miss it. On Wii U, Woolly World functioned better as a single-player game. The Yoshis are large character models, and placing more than one on the screen could sometimes get claustrophobic.

That violence isn't inappropriate given the traditions of both the Mafia series and the open-world action genre in general. You know going into a game like this that by the end of it, you're going to leave a great deal of carnage in your wake. That the action is, by and large, satisfying, somewhat salves the feeling of repetition that sets in long before the game concludes. When I say that the game revolves around gunfights, I mean that in the near absolute. There's very little variety to Mafia III's mission designs. Occasional boostings of cars or destructions of properties only barely break up the hours upon hours of shootouts with extremely gullible guys sporting bomber jackets and/or giant sideburns. In a game with a less entertaining combat system, this would be ruinous. In Mafia III, I had a good enough time kicking doors down and shotgunning dudes through windows that I was mostly OK with it.

, As a tactical game, the basics are straightforward and recognisable to any Hearthstone dabbler. You get a handful of cards, some are spells and some are creatures that you can summon (or heroes or gods etc). Each creature has numbers denoting their attack strength and health. Every attack (or almost every attack) will prompt a counterattack from the targeted monster. It’s more or less a game of small numbers, random luck and tempo, getting into a position to do slightly more damage than your foe at critical moments. You’ve also got your principal God on the same battlefield. You need to kill the opposing God to win, chipping away at their larger health pool until one of you snuffs it., The difference here is that you’re summoning things to a chess-like board of squares, meaning you can block off enemy attacks with careful positioning, or make use of weaker ranged units by putting them out of your enemies’ reach. You can corner the opposing God so that they have limited space, or fight for some goodies that spawn in the centre ground. It adds an extra dimension to the gurning arithmetic that goes on in your brain during these types of card games. Each turn has to be played in the ideal ordered, logical steps but also with an awareness of space., , There are only a few Gods to start, each bringing its own Pantheon to its deck. As well as a weak and basic attack, these Gods also have a special ability. For example, Zeus can spend a couple of mana (the magic dollars you spend to play the cards) to draw a fresh card from his deck. Odin can buff his summoned dirtbags with a similar mana tithe. The trade-off is that using an ability exhausts the God, so you can’t normally attack and use your special powers. It’s one or the other., The important thing to know is that lesser gods – the kind you can spawn as units on the field – also have these secondary abilities. Aphrodite can put a shield on another unit and heal it. Bastet can summon three weak cats each with 1 attack and 1 health. Loki can teleport an enemy three tiles away and deal it 5 damage. This is an extra thing to keep in mind as you fight. It’s not always as simple as comparing red and green numbers., , There are a bunch of these lesser gods in each pantheon (about 7-9 in each) but only a couple are open to the beginner in the starter decks. To get new cards you earn ‘favour’ and spend it on new packs. These contain 5 random cards. But there’s also the obligatory free-to-play vom, which encourages you to spend real cash to get ‘runes’ that you can spend on packs. The shop full of runes is unsurprisingly tiered to make you spend more. 7 card packs would cost you 500 runes, for example. But the “BUY BUY BUY” page lists only 400 runes or 800 runes as a viable purchase, with no in-between option. It’s classic stuff from the big book of F2P monetary psychology – inventing a faux currency, randomising the results of a loot pack, implementing a slow grind – and there’s nothing here that other similar games don’t indulge in. But that doesn’t make it any less icky. Especially if you buy the founder’s pack and are already paying $20 to test the game for them., , And here’s the kicker. You really are testing this game. Placeholder art is one thing, but bugs and a positively malnourished user interface mean that even a short and steady match will have its “gurr?” moments. I’ll give you an example: I was playing as Zeus, facing down a player wielding a sturdy Ra. I was on the ropes, almost certainly going to lose. But that’s okay, I thought, with my last action this turn I can just splurdge 2 mana and draw a new card., “NotEnoughManaForAbility,” said a banner at the top of the screen., , I checked my mana. I had three., I checked the cost of the ability. “Spend 2 mana to draw a card,” it read., Hm., I lost that match, and I probably still would have lost whether the game let me draw a new card or not. But it was an eye-rolling reminder that I was playing a game that didn’t always function correctly., Other times there is no bug but the game has not explained itself in a reliable way. During another match, I used a ‘stun’ card on an enemy’s ranged minion. From everything I’d experienced thus far, this would stop an enemy minion from taking any action the next turn. I also poisoned her for good measure. That way, she would also die at the end of the next go. It was an expensive set of moves but, unless the enemy God had a purification spell (which removes status effects), the minion was certain to die., I was very confused when she let off a shot and struck me for a nasty 4 damage on the next turn. Obviously, I have missed something here – but what? I looked at the battle log (a little menu to the left that shows previous cards played) but I couldn’t see anything that explained it. Can minions only suffer one status effect at a time? Was this minion immune to stunning? That can’t be it, I saw the little stars whizz around her head. Does ‘stun’ actually just mean a minion can’t move but can still attack? No, because, inspecting the card, it says that stun ‘exhausts’ a unit entirely. Unless ‘exhausts’ means something else? I still don’t know what happened here., , Of course, these moments of confusion were sometimes only a matter of me learning the vocabulary of the game, getting to know the exact effects of each brutish Ymir, or what ‘Pardon’ meant when a giant enemy Fury is storming down the middle of the board towards you (it means the unit can’t be counter-attacked when it strikes). At those moments when I’d misinterpreted something that ought to have been clear, I felt irritated – but only at myself., There are many small differences between this and my usual stomping ground of Duelyst. Your deck is half the size for one thing, bringing only 20 cards to the battle grounds. This is because draw is much slower. You can’t replace a card once per turn, so there’s less ‘digging’ for a particular card to land the killing blow., , But this only makes the matches slower-paced and gives the victim of an opening hand of bad cards a sense that they’ve already lost. Sometimes I have gone two or three turns without even playing a card, simply because I couldn’t afford it in the early game. Normally, if this happened a lot I would consider re-making my deck – but this was with a starter deck, something that ought to be well-rounded. Duelyst’s solution of being able to shuffle a card back in and draw again once per turn dulls the pain of an unlucky draw. With its smaller deck and secondary abilities, I get the feeling that Smite Tactics wants to be a slower, more thoughtful game. But it only succeeds at being the former., With card design, it simply felt like there was a lack of invention. And although each pantheon has its own tone, no god was radically different from another, no strategies seemed unique to any deck. Odin has some swarmy abilities, for example. One card lets him spawn two ranged archers at a time, another spawns two small soldier boys at a time. Then, he can unleash a cheap spell that does 1 damage at random for every friendly minion., , This is a better example of one God’s vibe but even here there is a fundamental design flaw. All those cards need to be played in succession to land the fullest, strongest blow. Spawn the creeps and wait until the next turn and you risk them all being killed by the time you get the chance to cast the cheap damage spell, nullifying it totally. But do what seems natural and correct – play all the cards one after the other – and you’ll find yourself with an empty hand and no way to draw up. This might be a interesting risk/reward mechanic for other players but to me the slow draw speed and low creature count feels like a stifling limitation on the game, a ball and chain that turns everything into a sluggish crawl toward an unsatisfying and non-creative KO., , There are other issues, like I said, mostly with the user interface. The matchmaking boots you back to a previous menu for a few seconds when it has found a match, leaving you wondering if it was successful or not. The campaigns promise to allow you to fight AI puzzles in exchange for rare cards, but this menu was totally empty when I clicked on it. Sometimes a match will end and claim you the victor, but there’s no indication if this was because the enemy conceded or disconnected or what. These are all problems that will likely be fixed but for now they make the whole experience feel a bit sloppy., I feel like I haven’t seen enough of the cards to say for definite whether Smite Tactics has some clever plays and strange tricks embedded in its design. It may well have. But the glacial pace, old fashioned fantasy art (filled to the brim with gratuitous tits), sluggish grind and borked UI mean I can’t help but view it as a poor man’s Duelyst.

Fusions stands out in the library of Dragon Ball video games as an interesting entry in the otherwise fighting-game-heavy collection. It is charming in its willingness to innovate within Dragon Ball, but it never quite executes on any of its pillars.

As you piece together what happened and who you are, reality becomes warped during a few segments. Disturbing images pop up on screen, and some of the later environments don’t comply with the laws of physics. These segments tie into the plot naturally, but aren’t captivating and often feel unnecessary. While my character’s heart rate increased whenever he ran into one of these events, the character models aren’t detailed or animated well enough to induce any real scares. At one point, I lowered the visor of a helmet and laughed at the twisted face inside it as the trademark horror stinger played.

While sniping is the main draw, Fairburne has plenty of other options at his disposal. From trip-mines and TNT that blow enemies to smithereens to rocks and whistles that stealthily lure enemies, Sniper Elite 4 empowers players to approach each mission how they want. While being stealthy has serious advantages at times, if you set yourself up with trip-mines and a lot of secondary weapon ammo, there are few situations you can’t fight your way out of. Because the SMGs, shotguns, and pistols are fun and easy to use, I didn’t mind getting my hands dirty and taking the fight up close. When each goodhearted stealth attempt inevitably ended with my cover being blown and hordes of enemies descending on me, I took comfort that I had access to these effective secondary weapons.

In a very DLC sort of way, Gladiolus steps away from the core party in Final Fantasy XV proper for a bit (during Chapter 7) -- that's where this episode takes place., It's the Gladiolus show, yes indeed, and all of his raw combat power is showcased in this add-on that sees him undertaking a trial to beef up for Noctis. Strangely, Cor Leonis, someone who was barely touched upon in the campaign is here, and earns his place -- but only just a little. He's one of the most fearsome members of the military sworn to King Regis, but he takes a backseat here to the main bro. His inclusion merely serves as a light level of exposition and feels like a missed opportunity to delve further into life in the kingdom of Lucis, something that's glossed over in favor of giving us a reason to watch the Kingsglaive movie., While it's easy to forgive some of the omissions as the story is easy enough to piece together, this would have been the perfect opportunity to push the lore a little more -- as it stands, the free anime episode is more enlightening than this paid DLC., , In fact, clocking in at roughly an hour or two (if you do everything), there isn't much room for anything outside of a slight twist on the already fun combat system. Gladiolus is a little slower than what you're used to, but he does have the gamey rage meter that lets him charge up and unleash new abilities after getting hit or dealing damage. You're basically going to be blocking more than dodging and counter-attacking, which to its credit, does differentiate DLC Gladiolus from playing as Noctis. Pulling giant columns out of the ground and using them to bludgeon enemies to death is also a hilarious touch that meshes with the strongman theme., That cool nuanced combat alteration (which will no doubt spread over into the other characters' DLCs) stops there. Episode Gladiolus is basically a dungeon you'd wander into on the open map, and almost feels like a loose collection of challenge rooms. A comparison Square Enix saw fit to address itself, as it even has a score attack mode that skips cutscenes and turns the whole affair into a speedrun-like deal. Bang bang, slash slash, fight [a more serious rendition of] Gilgamesh, and you're done. As previously mentioned, you do get a shirtless Gladiolus outfit that carries over into the main game, which is a cool little bonus., As someone who absolutely loved every member of the bro-trip party, I was hoping for a little bit more from the first major round of Final Fantasy XV DLC. The game has already received a ton of fantastic free updates, but so far the "Episode" format seems to be something all of us should enjoy in the Game of the Year edition, and not piecemeal., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher. You can access the DLC from the main menu as a separate episode.], Final Fantasy XV: Episode Gladiolus reviewed by Chris Carter, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Hollow from the other side, I must have died a thousand times, I got my Nintendo Switch day one and I've put around 10 hours into The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, the latest game from my favorite series. Not because I don't love it, but because I've been obsessed with Hollow Knight. It is that damned good., In a year that has been absolutely filled to the brim with great games, I can say Hollow Knight is hands down without a doubt in my mind my favorite and surely an early contender for game of the year., , 

I’m glad that the cooking system isn’t overly cumbersome, as it’s absolutely necessary. Among the sweeping changes to series tradition is the method in which you heal yourself. In almost every past entry, you could recover from a damaging battle by simply cutting some grass or breaking some pots until you found enough hearts. That option is nowhere to be found here. You can eat raw food off of the ground if you’d like, but you need to cook meals if you hope to have any serious source of health recovery.

These complaints did little to dampen my enjoyment of the overall experience. I had been underwhelmed by the brief looks at the game I had received prior to release, as most of those snippets involved the early portion that leads you by the hand. While that part of the game boasts its fair share of scares, the really impressive stuff is what comes once things open up. Resident Evil 7 features just the right amount of modern twists mixed into the traditional formula. It may not reach the same heights as an industry-changer like Resident Evil 4, but it certainly ranks among the best entries in the series.

In the 10 hours it took me to get through Owlboy, I never felt like I was going through the motions, and I only once felt like I’d rather skip a part of the game, during a later stealth section aboard a pirate ship where the checkpoints were too spread out. But otherwise, I was constantly facing new situations. A few stealth sections slow the pace down, but they’re (mostly) not too frustrating. A few bombastic set-piece moments, like skimming from rock to rock to avoid a pirate ship’s cannon, punctuate these segments as well.

The original Blaster Master on the NES told the classic tale of a young boy named Jason, who watched his frog jump onto a discarded box of radiation in his backyard before turning into a giant mutant. Jason follows his pet amphibian into a mysterious pit only to discover a high-tech tank named Sophia the 3rd, which he uses to travel through endless caves on a side-scrolling adventure. Blaster Master Zero remixes the story into something resembling the original, except Jason is now a young scientist hunting a frog-like mutant for further study. Overall, the narrative takes itself too seriously and lacks the gonzo charm of the original NES game.

The mysterious faction called the Children of Arkham are responsible for the upheaval in Bruce’s life. We still don’t know why they are doing this to him or what their endgame is; we just know they want Bruce to pay for the crimes his father committed decades ago. This episode repeatedly beats the drum that there is no way out for Bruce, no matter how the player reacts to a scenario – they all end poorly. The thumping of the drum just gets louder and more violent as the plot unravels.

The Golf Club VR has asynchronous multiplayer, but is very light in the features department. Apart from the laudable gameplay and the sheer volume of the courses available, the game lacks a career mode, structure, or any alternate modes. This does not detract from the gameplay, but leaves the Golf Club VR in between clubs with a par on the horizon. 

Nioh will break you down (and note this clearly, this is an uncompromising game that does not mind crushing your dreams) before it lifts you up, but you soon crave the thrill of mastering a new weapon or toppling a titanic boss. Endless optimization and customization, engaging encounters, and unparalleled combat by yourself or with a friend make Nioh an excellent choice for your next dark action/RPG.

Because each ship (made up of several rooms) is randomly generated, combat encounters are always different, which gives Flinthook a great sense of variety. Play long enough and enemies become familiar. But you also begin to recognize them as pieces of a larger challenge; some enemies do nothing but take up space but become more dangerous when protected by shield-generating allies and a sea of cannons. In many cases, the room you’re fighting in is a bigger obstacle than the monsters you’re fighting.

Urban Trial Freestyle 2 challenges you to master a multitude of courses in either stunt mode or time attack. Tracks are treacherous with a variety of jumps, obstacles, and barely noticeable bumps that aim to trip you up. It took me a while to really get into the groove of everything. The key to doing well was not only track memory, but my ability to adjust on the fly. Speeding through a track isn’t necessarily the best way forward as I discovered it was much more important to make sure my bike was well balanced on the ground, going into a jump or coming in for a landing. , In stunt mode, there are a few pre-determined spots where you’ll need to complete the required “stunt.” I put that in quotes because three of the four “stunts” are not stunts at all. You either jump high, jump far, jump a certain distance, or do a flip. At first, I found the scoring for these tricks to be wildly inconsistent but I eventually learned the quirks of the system. For instance, when doing a flip I found that nailing a perfect 360 wasn’t nearly as well received as slightly going over. , Tracks aren’t necessarily built to make performing these “stunts” easy. In fact, many of them seemed to be actively working against me and nailing a four or five-star run required multiple attempts. Branching pathways made replaying the tracks enjoyable, but the poor placement of checkpoints hurt the experience. They almost feel like they’re inserted at random and several tracks could be greatly improved with some checkpoint adjustments. One I remember had a series of difficult sections with a small break in between the two most difficult jumps. Clearing this part of the track took roughly 20 tries, a number that could have been cut in half had the checkpoint been moved from the end of this section to the middle. I know that sounds like a you-need-to-get-gud complaint, but many other tracks where I didn’t face any troublesome jumps also had checkpoints that made little sense in their location., , I don’t think I’ve ever given much thought to a game’s menus in any of my previous reviews, but I need to take a moment to tell you how awful they are here. Tracks are grouped together in several different locations, such as highways and suburbs. When you select a location, you can choose the track you want to play, but after you are done with it, you can either go to the next track in the group or exit back out and repeat the selection process. The rest of the menus look straight out of the '90s and feel like a first draft. , Nowhere is the poor menu system more evident than in the track builder. You can build and upload your own uniquely designed tracks as well as download those designed by others. The options are extensive for building your ultimate track, but there’s no smart or simple way to navigate its available elements. When placing pieces on your track, you can’t easily snap them together to make an easier ride. Creating a quality track took a lot, a lot, of trial and error as I had to learn the jump angles possible from each individual jump. Having more options would have kept me in the mode for longer, or even just the option to move where the finish line is. , As for unlockables, there is new gear you can purchase - all of which is just as ugly as the rest of the game - as well as upgrades for your bikes. There are four bikes to unlock that each handle in their own unique way and upgrades you can purchase for those bikes. , I’m sure there is a demographic out there that Urban Trial Freestyle 2 will appeal to, but it is clear to me now that I am not a part of that key demo. While I can appreciate what they were going for here and I found myself really getting into the challenge, any feeling of joy I experience doesn’t last for long when I’m faced with so many bewildering design choices., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Urban Trial Freestyle 2 reviewed by CJ Andriessen, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Waaagh to the future, I've been playing Warhammer tabletop for nearly 20 years, and I've seen what feels like hundreds of games based on the property come and go. Some stick with me, like Total War: Warhammer. Others fall by the wayside and are forgotten like Fire Warrior., But the Dawn of War series has been one of the most consistent sub-franchises of all. Even with some of the missteps in the third iteration, it's still relevant.

After the crew of the UNSC warship Spirit of Fire wakes up from a quarter-century cryogenic nap, they discover that humanity’s war against the Covenant has ended. Stranded a galaxy from home, the crew responds to an emergency beacon only to encounter a bloodthirsty faction of the Covenant known as the Banished. Their leader – an imposing Brute named Atriox – dismantles a team of three Spartans in their first skirmish. As tensions escalate, the Spirit of Fire’s crew is forced to push back against these battle-hardened space gorillas and uncover the mystery at the heart of a new Forerunner installation.

Quick Draw has two players raising their controllers and pressing the trigger when the announcer says "fire," awarding the win to the fastest time. Fake Draw does the exact same thing, but with a few false audio cues thrown in. Telephone times who can pick up their controller the fastest when the ringer goes off. Samurai Training challenges you to swing your controller before your opponent can react. All of them boil down to simple reflex tests, and use the same technology present in virtually every modern controller and smartphone. None of them are fun beyond the inherent entertainment of staring down a friend and seeing who can move faster, which is why the game constantly prompts you to make eye contact with your opponent – despite throwing up images and score indicators on the display that it apparently doesn't want you to look at. Either way, you and your friends are better off just playing the hand-slap game; the sting of defeat will wear off much quicker than the sting of wasting your money.

Planet Coaster is almost a misnomer. While roller coasters are certainly a star attraction for any theme park, that’s only one element in Planet Coaster’s larger diorama. Frontier Developments (of Roller Coaster Tycoon fame) has created a complete theme park simulator that allows you to customize little details (like the speed of your tilt-a-whirl) while managing a staff and funding advertisement campaigns to attract the masses across the country.

, Death comes easily to the intrepid hex explorer. If you’re lucky, you’ll just get a quick bandit axe in the forehead. But if you’re like me, only the most scurrilous death will do. In a poison bog surrounded by old swamp hags, for example. Or deep underground at the hands of deranged cultists and their bat minions. These are just some of the ways you can (will) die in For The King, a shiny and modern-looking RPG that nevertheless retains a good and ancient heart. And by that I mean it has absolutely no qualms about murdering you.

The gameplay systems are explained over the course of a lengthy tutorial that mostly works. The higher you progress, the more options you unlock, including higher-tier fighters, vending machine boosts, and customizable decals to augment your roster of punishers. Of particular note is the Tokyo Death Metro, which allows you to invade other player’s headquarters and rob them of resources. You have to fight through any defenders they may have set up in their base, but you have a chance to capture downed fighters and bring them back to your own base to drain their life essence for even more resources. This incurs the ire of the players you rob, who will likely come back and try to rescue their fallen fighter. This player-vs-player system is fun, and feels quite similar to base-bashing mobile games like Clash of Clans, with players selecting and representing a faction (states, countries, etc.) to create larger wars.

Video games rarely delve into the realm of political critique. When they do, they’re often explicitly concerned with the present, targeting presidential candidates or recent events. Orwell is notable because it tries to pull off the tricky combo of being timeless and uncomfortably topical, and does so with mixed success. The game casts you as an investigator using Orwell, a nationwide surveillance system that can spy on anyone at any time. It lets you view emails and pictures, and allows you to listen in on intimate conversations and choose what bits of information to give to your supervisor. The supervisor then acts on that information, choosing to call the police on certain suspects or use various details you’ve collected during interrogations. You and your supervisor are investigating a recent terrorist bombing tied to a group of academic bloggers (yes, really).

It doesn’t feel like the map is huge for the sake of being huge. While there are stretches of unpopulated land, I never felt like I was at a loss for things to do. There are plenty of shrines to locate, wildlife to photograph and hunt, minerals and food to collect, friendly characters to help, and camps of enemies to battle and loot. One of my favorite things that happened frequently was finding myself out of my league. Since I spent so many of my early hours exploring the world, I’d inevitably wander into areas that I was not properly equipped for. Rather than running from these higher-level enemies, I saw them as a challenge. With no items being gated behind dungeons, I knew that the tools to beat these enemies were already at my disposal, even if any one of their attacks could wipe me out instantaneously. Taking out a Lynel late in the game feels like an accomplishment. Slaying one when I only had five heart containers felt like a triumph.

The original Blaster Master wore its inspirations on its sleeve, melding the exploration of Metroid with the dungeon-crawling of The Legend of Zelda. It was a working formula that helped build a sizeable cult following. Flash forward almost three decades and Inti Creates has taken that original blueprint and used it as a foundation to build a remaster that follows faithfully in the spirit of the original game while expanding on a number of important areas. The basic world layout is similar to the original NES title, but Inti Creates has liberally redesigned several areas, created new boss fights, and added a few modern conveniences such as navigation markers. However, Blaster Master Zero often feels like it’s going through the motions, and its retro aesthetic feels uninspired. Despite this attempt to revitalize the brand, Blaster Master Zero feel like the product of a bygone era.

As for the action, fights are losing their luster. I can only tap so many buttons to kill a string of zombies before it all starts to blend together. Telltale has tried to alleviate this by adding some different mechanics to ratchet up the intensity. For instance, as your group is fighting off a swarm from breaking through a gate, you must secure a safe place. In another scene, when you finally confront an awful person, you can choose how many times you want to hit them to illustrate your anger. Telltale has done this in the past, but putting justice in your hands feels more satisfying.

Poor interface design ensures that the action itself never feels dynamic for too long, either. Pulling up the map, an objective list, or any other in-game menu is a clunky endeavor that slows things down considerably. Tagging enemies requires you to bring up your phone, switch to the camera, and hope that you can pass the center of the lens over the enemy model directly: Any obstruction, even see-through mesh fences, prevent the camera from acquiring the target.

Thankfully, the checkpoint system is generous, often resetting to right before you encounter the enemy that killed you. While I appreciate this, it has a tendency to backfire during intense segments like being pinned down by a tank. When this happened, I either needed to restart my mission altogether (less than ideal, since missions can take between one and two hours on first attempt) or sprint away and hope the enemies miss me. The feeling of hopelessness and frustration that sprung from such situations made me thankful it didn’t happen regularly.

A billion years in Earth’s future, many civilizations have risen and fallen, leaving behind a detritus of science that may as well be magic to the newest inheritors of the planet. One man has tapped into that wealth of lost knowledge and discerned the secret to immortality. He casts off bodies at his convenience, leaving behind new personalities in the discarded husks. You are one of these husks, and you awake to life tumbling from orbit at terminal velocity, speeding to meet the ground below. 

With minimal stat-tracking, a lack of a progression system, and no long-term play options like seasons or tours, I don't feel compelled to return to any of the modes outside of the allure of the simplistic gameplay and working to find the best characters for my playstyle. Luckily, that aspect does add some interesting wrinkles into the mix.

Other games do more to highlight the system's limitations than its potential. Copy Dance and Runway encourage you to strike silly poses, but all that really matters is the orientation of the controller. I wildly flailed a single hand during a round of Dance Off, and not only did I beat my more sincere dance opponent, I received an "A" for rhythm (I can assure you, I have zero rhythm). These games aren't fun, but their failure runs even deeper; they undermine the Switch's capabilities by relying on obvious smoke and mirrors.

Andromeda compares most favorably to previous entries when the bullets and biotics start flying. This is the best combat has ever felt in the series. The controls are responsive, the action is fluid, and the focus on mobility leads to more dynamic encounters. You aren’t just hunkering down under the same crate to shoot at distant foes; different enemy types keep you moving by flushing you out, at which point you dash and jump to a new location. Though the auto-cover can be frustratingly inconsistent, you are never in the same place for too long, and using a combination of powers and weapons to buy yourself breathing room leads to many thrilling moments.

Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is primarily a re-release of an acclaimed game from three years ago, but by adding new content and addressing the biggest complaint of the original, this version is unquestionably the best way to experience Nintendo's great racer. Battle mode is back to its original glory, and when combined with the rest of the robust Mario Kart 8 package, it creates a great addition to the fledgling Switch library.

Taking inspiration from the likes of Easy Rider, Mad Max, and the works of Hunter S. Thompson, Full Throttle was a strange game in 1995 – and it remains strange today. A comedic revenge tale set in the post-apocalypse, Full Throttle puts players in the leather boots of Ben, the leader of a motorcycle gang known as the Polecats who get caught up in a bloody conspiracy. For this remaster, Double Fine has completely redone the visuals, touched up the audio, and packed the game with bonus features (much like it did with Day of the Tentacle Remastered). These enhancements make this fantastic adventure game’s age-related shortcomings easier to bear for newcomers and those making a return trip.

Utopia is the first major expansion for Stellaris, Paradox Development Studio’s 4X, grand strategy space hydra. It’s a term that normally conjures up images of a perfect society, all green and chill and maybe a little like Star Trek’s United Federation of Planets. That’s nice, I guess, but what if your idea of perfection is building a civilization on the backs of robotic slaves? And what about a monstrous hive of ravenous beasties that won’t rest until all matter in the universe has been consumed? What would its utopia look like? I’ve been experimenting with a galaxy-sized petri dish to find out. , You don’t need to get very far into Stellaris to see the impact of Utopia and its accompanying free patch, titled Banks. The moment you enter your species-creating laboratory, things should immediately look pretty different. , , Crafting a government now involves picking components from three distinct lists: ethics, authority and civics. Ethics aren’t entirely new, but there are a couple of replacements – egalitarianism and authoritarianism – that change the statistical bonuses found within the concentric circles that help define your society. Your picks then inform what type of governments your newly-spawned civilisation can construct by selecting an authority, like democratic or imperial, and then civics. The latter is a meaty list from which you can choose two civics, running the gamut from shadow council, conferring a 50 percent bonus to influencing elections, to mechanist, which gives you droids to play with right from the get go. , I’ve got a penchant for making techy, nerdy aliens with a hard-on for robots, but until Utopia, a lot of that had to be just in my head. Sure, I could invest in more research facilities and eventually make a breakthrough that allowed me to build automatons, but any species can do that. In Utopia, there are considerably more ways to make my eggheads stand out. It’s possible to start developing a society of machines from day one, and with other civics, small but important boosts to research make it clear to everyone in the galaxy: these lab coats ain’t just for show., , This extra fine-tuning leads to a greater sense of control, and that feeling that you’re able to better determine the direction of your species extends well beyond the species creator, notably thanks to traditions. These are, essentially, Stellaris’ very own version of national focuses, which you might be familiar with if you’ve dabbled in Paradox’s flagship grand strategy game, Europa Universalis. , By spending a new resource, unity, trees can be unlocked, each containing five bonuses themed around a specific ideology, of which there are seven. Reducing unrest, lowering ship costs, unlocking new types of colony ships – traditions affect every aspect of Stellaris while also providing empires with a more distinct identity. They also ensure that progression feels constant. Even when you’re well into the end-game, development persists., , The real benefit of the tradition system takes a bit of time to reveal itself, however. See, once you’ve unlocked all five of them in a single tree, you can choose an ascension perk, and this is where Paradox have gone all out in creating the fantasy of leading a highly advanced, space-faring empire. Some of the perks confer massive bonuses, like the world shaper’s 100 percent increase in terraforming speed. But the ones you’ll really want to play around with have an even more tangible impact. Synthetic evolution turns your entire species into robots. Transcendence makes everyone telepathic. And there are three different perks that let you construct fancy sci-fi megastructures like space habitats, Dyson spheres and, yes, finally, ringworlds. , It takes a significant amount of time to access these game-changing perks, and then even more time, resources and research to implement them. You won’t be turning your population into machines or consuming every planet in a solar system to create a massive ringworld right away, but the early-game is already busy enough as it is. What they do is highlight possible directions, nudging empires down different, logical paths with massive rewards waiting for you once you’ve put in the time. , , Synthetic Evolution doesn’t just make everyone robots – it means that you can happily colonise any potentially habitable planet regardless of the biome. Oh yeah, and everyone becomes immortal. Conveniently, robots don’t eat, either, so it’s no longer necessary to worry about food production, at least not for your synthetic citizens. Priorities change, then, and new avenues open up, blessing the later parts of Stellaris with the novelty and sense of discovery that was previously more evident in the earlier exploration and colonisation phase., If expansion and developing new colonies are what you crave the most, you don’t need to stop, either. Even once you’ve exhausted every colonisable planet, it’s possible to continue growing your vast space empire through habitats, which can orbit most worlds, creating more room in which a multitude of citizens can be crammed, along with plenty of resource-generating buildings. Ringworlds, meanwhile, can turn unappealing solar systems into megastructures that are effectively four Gaia-class planets all rolled into one gargantuan building encircling a sun. , , Despite the aforementioned constant progression, the benefits of traditions can threaten to become a little redundant, and while the purpose they serve is an important one, forcing players to unlock an entire tree to get a perk strips away some flexibility. , Take the journey of my space nerds, for instance. I started by focusing on the discovery tree, with its myriad bonuses to exploration and science, which made complete sense for my friendly species of scientists who liked mathematics more than conquest. With that tree complete, I selected the perk that gave me a 10 percent buff to research. I was doing a lot of building and working on a beefy fleet, so the prosperity tree was a natural next step, and once that was complete, I turned everyone into a cyborg. As you do. But by the time I’d gone down yet another tree and finally created a perfect synthetic species, I found myself a bit stumped. I had both the time and inclination to get several new perks, but none of the trees really seemed relevant to either the theme of my empire or my needs. So I was going through the motions, unlocking more unnecessary traditions just so I could get to the good stuff. , , More choices would certainly help, but the real problem is the rule that you must work your way through every single tradition in a tree before getting access to a new perk. That Stellaris makes so many playstyles and paths viable – normally a boon – becomes an issue here because inevitably you’re going to have to spend a vast amount of unity on things that simply don’t matter to you. , While this system attempts – and sometimes succeeds – to solve the problem where, once you’ve build the foundations of your empire, there’s a lot of waiting around for interesting things to happen, it can sometimes exacerbate it. It is not, however, alone, and is joined in its effort by a reworked faction system. Previously, factions were effectively just rebellious groups of dissidents, but now they can represent political parties or large movements, like religious groups railing against a secular empire. And they don’t all exist in opposition to the establishment. They might fully support it. This depends on their values and objectives, and if they’re being catered to. , , Factions can be managed indirectly by studying their values and then attempting to pander to them. If a faction demanding better treatment for aliens is getting a bit upset, maybe consider not enslaving every new species you meet? But there are also direct actions you can take by suppressing them, promoting their ideology, or fully embracing them, potentially changing the ethics of your society. Ignoring them increases the chances of creating unrest, as citizens become unhappy, which can lead to riots, terrorism and schisms within the empire. This adds continuous agency and personality to populations while making engaging with them considerably more compelling than simply dealing with angry rebels, and importantly it’s clear how you can solve any problems that they might create. , But you know who doesn’t care about factions? Hive Minds. By picking the Hive Mind ethic when you create your species, you get a unique authority separate from the other political systems and your own set of civics that make your rather disturbing new species completely distinct. Hive Minds don’t suffer from unhappiness, they don’t create factions, they consume any aliens that live inside their empires, and any member of the Hive Mind that leaves will eventually die. , , The impact of playing a Hive Mind seeps into almost every element of Stellaris, sometimes in minor ways, but frequently major ones. How you approach expansion or dealing with other species is dramatically different. And there’s a certain appeal in playing an organic machine that feeds on other lifeforms and doesn’t give two hoots about comfort or happiness. In a Hive Mind’s utopia, everyone is on the same page and working towards the same goals. But playing as this single-minded tyrant also means forgoing some of Stellaris’ best new features, like the increasingly complex political game and population management. If you need a break from intensive micromanagement, however, then Hive Minds may prove to be a seductive prospect. , Utopia and the accompanying free update fix a great many niggles found within Stellaris. Storytelling and discovery have always been the game’s strong points, while empire management and politics could sometimes feel a bit underwhelming, especially when things start to slow down by the middle of the game. While not every issue is solved, great strides have been made towards maintaining the game’s pace from the start, fleshing out populations and generally making the galaxy feel even more alive and more diverse. , However! Factions, most civics, traditions, the reworked government system and a multitude of other tweaks and improvements are all available for free with the Banks patch. Utopia enhances them, adding the more advanced civics, ascension perks and megastructures, but it’s really just building on the excellent foundations created by the update. These enhancements are great, sometimes even game-changing, but Paradox are offering so much for free that it makes the actual premium DLC less vital.

Riffing off the stellar Numenera tabletop RPG, Torment launches onto its own trajectory with the fiction, and achieves a peerless approach to world-building. From characters to locations, nearly every moment is populated with some new conceptual anomaly. A merchant is slowly transforming into an insect due to the radiation of his wares. City guards are artificial constructs formed from a single year of life stolen from each of the city’s citizens. An old man works alongside his younger self prior to being flung back in time. One character I met answered the query of who they were with the phrase: “Some might describe me as a superpositional extraction of fundamental universal laws made tangible.” And an entire major location within the game is a miles-wide extradimensional being with mouths that open into different universes. Torment delights in its bizarre personality, and most of the time that makes for great fun. But when everyone you meet is an enigmatic stranger with a twisted backstory and a reticence to share their secrets, the novelty is occasionally lost.  

Every Monday we order Brendan to examine the early access entrails for signs of coming chaos. This week, the guts tell of a magical and old-fashioned RPG called For The King [official site] with strange rougelike properties…

The original Shadow Warrior probably ranks among the more forgettable Doom clones, arriving in 1997 shortly before the likes of Half-Life, Quake, and Unreal made first-person shooters one of gaming’s most popular genres. Flying Wild Hog’s 2013 reboot channeled the irreverent humor of the original game into a modern first-person slasher/shooter that was smart enough to bank on its own arcadey action rather than mine nostalgia. Flying Wild Hog’s sequel tries to expand on that solid foundation, introducing RPG-like elements and a quest system in a semi-open world that emulates the likes of Borderlands and Destiny. While that sounds promising on paper, Shadow Warrior 2 is a prime example of how bigger is not always better.

By far, the most obvious upgrades to the original game come in the form of visuals and the weapon progression system. Insomniac takes full advantage of 14 years of graphical advancements and several installments’ worth of memorable weapons, and the end result is a Ratchet & Clank game that never feels like a simple throwback. Visually, it’s one of the most impressive games on the PlayStation 4. Enemies animate beautifully, the environments are gorgeous, and the action is perfectly chaotic with enemies, bolts, and explosions taking up every inch of the screen’s real estate.

Predictability is hard to come by in Infinite Air's trick system – an ignominious position for such a major gameplay component. Spin is generated by pre-loading your rider before launch, and the amount of spin you get decays the longer you hold down the triggers (for left or right spin, respectively). But this isn't the tricky part, as you can become accustomed to this (and pulling off tricks in general) after several hours of play. Stopping your rotation, however, is another matter altogether. Some previous trick-based games like Tony Hawk or Skate are built around specific inputs producing specific tricks. The fact that Infinite Air is physics-based and eschews the Tony Hawk-type direct approach means there is no way to predict when you're going to stop rotating once you start. This isn't a big problem when you're spinning in the normal horizontal plane, but if you try and perform tricks containing end-over-end flips or rolls, you have no way of judging whether you'll land on your feet or not.

Unplugging your first character from the Matrix-style tubing and setting off into the sky-high Tower of Barbs is a daunting, strange task. Scooping up mouthfuls of exotic mushrooms, battling an endless stream of foes with scavenged red-hot irons, and attempting to stave off death until the next elevator checkpoint is just the beginning of a layered adventure that pits you against deadly traps, bosses, and other players in asynchronous high-stakes combat. 

Mass Effect: Andromeda is a marked improvement over its predecessors in two areas: graphics and gunplay. The Frostbite engine proves itself quite capable of rendering the best-looking alien locales in Mass Effect history, and the shooting is more nimble and varied than it's ever been. In every other way--assembling a crew of engaging characters, meeting exotic aliens with intriguing stories to tell, flying around in your own starship solving problems big and small in a galaxy colored in shades of gray; in other words all the things that make Mass Effect unique and memorable--Andromeda takes one, two, or three steps back. It's also an utter mess in a technical sense. There are a few enjoyable moments here and there, and over time you can see the skeletal framework of a better game start to emerge, but given the heights Mass Effect has reached in the past, it's hard to believe this is what we've been waiting five years for.

Stories Untold is a unique four-hour experience that both horror fans and those who love to dissect head-scratching enigmas should check out. Though a number of frustrating puzzles may prove too tiresome for many, those who stick with it will find themselves rewarded with a treasure trove of gruesome and morbid delights. 

Telltale has made its name touting narrative choice in its games, but episode one of the Guardians series feels too linear in structure to allow real investment in guiding the outcome of the story. I like that one important scene can unfold differently based on your choice, and another event brings one or another major character along for the ride. But the actual conclusions of multiple playthroughs emerge largely undifferentiated one from another. I hope the later episodes prove me wrong, and I begin to see my decisions shape the state of galactic affairs – but we’ve been down this road many times before with Telltale, and usually end up disappointed.

It's a shame, because there are elements around the edges of Wildlands that, if fleshed out more effectively, could have made for a better game. Take the story, for example. A Mexican drug cartel decides to leave home and set up shop closer to the source of its product: Bolivia. There, it creeps into multiple elements of society, turning the nation into a full-on, brazen narco-state. Your role is that of a set of four "operators," in country to work for the CIA on... a revenge mission? An undercover CIA guy is dead, and that's your flimsy entry into the story. Early on, the characters remark that they just need to get that revenge and get out before getting wrapped up in the politics of the coca trade. And then you proceed to get wrapped up in the politics of the coca trade, working with rebels to slowly dismantle the drug cartel's Bolivian branch.

I keep coming back to that desperate phrase: “If only...” It’s a phrase that the Resistance repeats over and over: “If only we had Walker…”; “If only we had a tank…”; “If only we had more people…” Sometimes the pacifist doctor or a pragmatic collaborator chides the group for their simplistic idealism: Shouldn’t we aim for achievable progress instead of impossible utopia? Instead of “If only we had...”, shouldn’t we instead ask “Okay, what do we have and what can we do with it?” This is a debate worth having--after all, it’s a debate that both of the major American political parties have been having internally for the better part of the last year. But despite the game’s earnest tone, Homefront never leaves space for these ideas to be debated narratively or mechanically. Instead, the dissenting voices are shut down and the Hail Mary pass is reaffirmed as the only way forward.

Franchise mode once again allows you to micro-manage every facet of your team, right down to the budget, scouting, and player moods. You can now select the level of complexity you want from these tasks from the outset. Easy handles just coaching, medium rolls in player development, hard adds general manager tasks. You can still turn these functions on or off, but from the outset, you can tailor the experience to your liking. Trade logic and the simulated results didn’t produce too many oddities in the three seasons I simulated.

Things pick up years later in an occupied Philadelphia where “The Resistance” struggles to expel the Korean People’s Army from the city. Philadelphia is split into distinct zones (with a fairly hefty load as you travel between them). Half of the areas are “red zones,” bombed-out battlefields where the resistance fights openly against the KPA. The other half are “yellow zones,” occupied residential districts where regular folks try to carry on life in the presence of police brutality, american collaborators and… well, that’s about all we’re given really. Homefront never stops to paint a picture of civilian life under the KPA. What little detail it provides about the setting mostly comes through dry journal entries and laughable graffiti scattered across the game. But things are bad, Homefront insists, very bad. And the Resistance needs help.

You’ve probably seen some of what The Last Guardian has to offer in other games, especially if you’ve played Ico and Shadow of the Colossus (the previous titles from creator Fumito Ueda). Playing as a boy exploring ancient ruins, you climb chains, pull levers, and find arcane devices. However, you are accompanied by a large mythical beast called Trico, and the presence of this companion is at the core of what makes this journey unique.

There's a multiplayer mode and some slightly odd user-created content features in here, but the single-player campaign alone is worth the price of entry, and there are so many great things I want to say about it that it's hard to know where to begin. The best place to start is with the origins of Doom itself, since this new game picks up the tenets of its seminal predecessor and runs with them. The maps are big and complex, with multiple crisscrossing paths, locked doors, and a good amount of backtracking. The shooting is fast, it hits hard, and it never lets you stop moving for a second. You don't even reload your weapons. You don't even reload your weapons!

Your Pokédex offers more visual reward for collecting Pokémon, though the act of catching the creatures is unchanged. You can tell immediately if a Pokémon has an evolution when you catch it, and when you collect a full set, the background color of that Pokémon’s entry changes. It’s a small flair, but it makes filling out your Pokédex enticing, and it is easier to see what entries are missing.

Tethering vehicles to each other or the environment was one of the funniest elements of Just Cause 2, and the enhanced tether in this entry really opens up the possibilities, You can now shoot out numerous tethers at once, and retract them at any time by holding the left trigger. This functionality is responsible for many of my favorite moments in the game, from causing fighter jets to crash into each other to launching a dead cow cartoonishly far off of a cliff. It’s good that causing mayhem in Just Cause 3 feels so good, because that’s what you’ll be doing for essentially the entire game. Unlocking powerful late-game jets and helicopters is cool at first, but then you realize that they’re just another way to get from settlement to settlement to destroy the same fuel tanks, generators, towers, and satellite dishes that you see ad nauseam throughout the entire game. A couple of the game’s 25 story missions incorporate some nice setpiece moments, but the majority of them don’t do much to differentiate themselves from the typical “hey, blow this thing up” routine (one odd outlier involved nothing more than driving a truck filled with wine casks for about two minutes). For a game that's almost wholly based around creating gigantic explosions at every turn, the PlayStation 4 version of the game has a difficult time keeping up when things get really chaotic. While liberating towns or destroying especially large items, the frame rate frequently dips dramatically. I never felt like I lost control over Rico or missed shots (thanks in part to the game's generous auto-aim), but it was disheartening to see these technical issues considering how smoothly the PC version ran even during the most explosive situations. A one-note experience isn’t necessarily a bad thing when it delivers on that one thing exceptionally well. Just Cause 3 has occasional physics problems and a lack of variety, but it’s fantastic if you just want to drop into a world and immediately start blowing it up. Upon completion of the story, you can even “re-oppress” individual settlements purely for the purpose of blowing them up all over again. It’s hard to complain about the gameplay feeling samey considering I’ve spent over 40 hours in the game and I’m still looking forward to going back and taking out more settlements. Avalanche clearly knows what this game is all about, and you should too if you want to give it a shot. If you’re aware of the game’s limitations and you’re still eager to blow an open world straight to hell, few games do it better than Just Cause 3.

Everything’s sales pitch is hard to swallow at first: You’re an entity capable of hijacking every single thing in the universe. And when I say “thing,” the vagueness is intentional. Animals. Houses. Microorganisms. Constellations. Everything is a strange hybrid of Journey and Katamari Damacy; it is purely about the joy and terror of exploration, both material and spiritual, which ends up being Everything’s greatest asset and biggest annoyance.

Nioh borrows heavily from other games that have inspired it, like Dark Souls and Diablo. Despite the foundation coming from familiar stock, the title manages to differentiate itself with complex combat, a mission system that fosters replayability, and creative customization. Pushing the player into extremely challenging encounters and environments creates immeasurable tension and stress, which can lead to sincere satisfaction and rich rewards for those with the tenacity to carry on through demon-infested lands. 

Finding a spot with a great view of the battlefield, staring down the scope of your rifle, and taking out your enemies before they even know what hit them is a thrilling moment in any shooter. With the fourth entry of Sniper Elite, a franchise built on delivering on that feeling, developer Rebellion has created a well-rounded and empowering sandbox shooter.

In 2013, Colorado Rockies first baseman Todd Helton used the hidden ball trick to record the final out of an inning, faking a throw to the pitcher to make Matt Carpenter of the St. Louis Cardinals step off of the base. This year’s MLB The Show also appears to have something to hide, as prominent new features push players to steer clear of the main game to experience a retro-styled arcade mode, manage a team through a simulated gamecast, or even spend time in the locker room figuring out what a rookie says to his agent on the phone.

Yoshi’s Woolly World is the best Yoshi’s Island game since the original released for Super Nintendo in 1995. Seeing its gameplay on a different platform seemed entirely possible, but the Wii U version took full advantage of the console’s HD visuals which made a port to the 3DS suspect. Thankfully, despite the small visual downgrade, Woolly World is still a great platformer, even on 3DS.

It takes several chapters for the game to really get moving, as it’s dead set on selling you on the character of Sam Drake. My early skepticism faded before too long, as Sam’s personality, storyline, and Troy Baker’s voice acting creates a character that’s critical to the overall experience from both a narrative and gameplay perspective. He’s only in one game in this four-game series (five if you count Golden Abyss), and yet Sam is responsible for more memorable moments than any other Uncharted character outside of Nathan or Sully.

Every boss is a highlight, forcing you to maneuver deftly or use every tool at your disposal in clever ways. In many of them, the dynamic of avoiding projectiles while waiting for a tell mixes well with the Metroid-esque tendency to use the newest weapon at your disposal. Not all of the fights work this way; one boss, a giant worm, adheres more closely to the “avoid bullets and shoot the weakpoint” school of boss design, but it’s still a fun fight. 

The palaces are deliberately crafted, not randomly generated. This is a noteworthy evolution for the series, but within the larger RPG landscape, their designs still feel outdated. I appreciate the attempts to add dimension by letting players jump on top of some objects and hide behind others, but they aren’t consistent enough. You run though many flat, boxy corridors, and rarely encounter obstacles beyond simple puzzles and locked doors. Don’t interpret that to mean the palaces aren’t impressive in other ways; I love their visual and thematic executions tied to their owners’ twisted desires, but the act of exploring them is the least interesting part of the game.

You can also physically move around the space with your feet, which is something the majority of shooters in VR don’t let you do. Movement is limited – more baby steps and leaning than running about guns blazing – but it gives you a surprising amount of options to use against enemies. For example, you might literally stoop in real life to duck beside a table in the game and then scooch to the left to avoid a knife swing by an approaching opponent so you can deliver an uppercut a second later.

Conton City is the biggest change, and it is the best part of Xenoverse 2. The hub world lets you explore, find unlockables, and just generally hang out. It can also be opened up to the internet where it functions as an online lobby hosting hundreds of players simultaneously, and plays out like a giant, weird Dragon Ball Z party. Tons of people are always standing around, all with their customized characters looking for party members to join them online. I spent most of my time standing in front of other players and exploring the myriad animated emotes. Conton City is where you get to see all the unlockable clothing and accessory items that function as references to the franchise, and interact with familiar characters. It fully embraces Dragon Ball’s silliness, and it’s where I had the most fun.

Outside of the lack of the more recent PC expansions and the simulation speed options, Cities: Skylines - Xbox One Edition is every bit as good as its PC counterpart. The mayoral planning fantasy is still intact with this version, and now easier than ever to get into. Simply put, if you're an Xbox One owner who is a fan of city-building simulation games, you need to check out Cities: Skylines.

Every week we dump Brendan out the back of a plane and into the hotbed of gunfire that veterans know only as ‘early access’. This week, the competitive murderfields of PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds [official site]., I’m halfway across the river when the net starts closing in. A huge electric field looms up behind me, sparkling and fizzing and nipping at my heels as I swim for my life. Having just dodged a player driving by in his jeep, I was now going to die of wounds slowly inflicted over time by the game itself, simply for not being in the right place. I kicked and swam, even as the electric field overtook me and my screen started to slowly bleed. If I didn’t reach the safe zone soon – marked by a white circle on the mini-map, I’d be dead. Oh well, I figured, there are less interesting ways to go.

Another significant issue arises from the obstacles that block your progress. I hesitate to call them “puzzles,” because they aren’t that complex; they aren’t built for experimentation, and don’t provide a sense of accomplishment when you finish them. For instance, you have a telekinetic wand that can lift all sorts of objects. But can you use it to pull a battery through a gap that is clearly big enough? No. Instead, you need to have your pet dinosaur squeeze through a hole and push the battery through the gap from the other side – and then you can pick it up with telekinesis. On top of the minimal amount of guidance you are given, the inconsistency of these roadblocks makes them frustrating and unsatisfying to solve.

At no point did I miss the traditional perspective and tank controls. This doesn’t play like a first-person shooter, it plays like a Resident Evil game that happens to be in first-person. Ammo is sparse, so you’ll have to make tough decisions regarding when to use it. When I decided to bring the guns out, I kicked myself for every missed shot. Not only are bullets a valuable commodity, but death can come quickly when you’re reloading during a tense enemy encounter or boss fight.

This reimagining of Ratchet & Clank is successful on every front. If you have kids that were just introduced to these characters thanks to the movie, this serves as one of the most effective movie tie-in games out there. If you’re a longtime fan of the series, this entry will bring back fond memories of the original while introducing new elements and featuring all of the solid visuals and controls you’d expect from an action game in 2016. If you’ve never played the series at all, there couldn’t be a better jumping-on point to introduce you to the characters, weapons, and gameplay of Insomniac’s flagship series. The only downside is that it doesn't do anything in particular to push the franchise forward as a whole, opting instead to act as a sort of "greatest hits" of the series' trademarks. Those looking for the next leap forward for the franchise won't get that here, but I'm plenty happy with it serving as a standalone encapsulation of all of the elements that make Ratchet & Clank great.

, Aesthetically and tonally, it puts me a little in mind of the Katamari games – that point where what would, in the wrong hands, be mere random wackiness tilts successfully into surreal joy. Weirdo creatures, order-givers who straddle the line between chummy and malevolent and, rather than a king in tight tights, we get a laconic Scottish astronaut with a baby’s face and a space-teapot on his head. This is a delightfully-presented game, and though many of its sights and sounds are entirely arbitrary, it always stops short of annoying. Folk from the likes of Adventure Time, Hohokum and Alphabear contributed to development, and boy does that collective expertise and ingenuity show., , Here’s the deal. You’re a spaceperson yourself, traipsing across various planetary landscapes divided into hexes and patrolled by the titular Rascals, whom you must clobber or be clobbered by. Combat is turn-based and activates whenever you share a space with an evil egg, a girl who shouts ‘bolus’, a clanky robot, a three-eyed Chewbacca or whatever wonderful oddity you’ve bumped into. , By and large, victory is decided by having sufficient attack power and defence power, and this is determined by the cards you have equipped. Blue ones add to your defence points, orange ones add to your offence, and any one may have bonus abilities that confer extra points to other cards, depending on where exactly you place them., , Card placement is half the game here – the maths of working out what arrangement maxes out your stats, and making painful decisions about what cards to bench because they don’t take advantage of some other bonus. Number goes up, number goes down, wait a minute, number goes WAY up. The combinations are impeccably well-balanced, with cards often having fiendish negative effects such as -2 if it’s in on the bottom row or docking a point from every card of the same type. , Basically, what this means is that you’re constantly swapping stuff out, not sitting pretty with The One True Deck, and unlike a Diablolike, a new card can have a dramatic rather than subtle effect on your numbers. If there was a way to sit there with an infinite deck of cards, endlessly fiddling in pursuit of the biggest number possible, I fear I would lose a whole day to it. , , Winning a fight might randomly drop a new card, and it’s this which is the main spur to head off into dangerous territories, further and further flung from the small dome that acts as your base. Loot! But, Rascals! As far as I can tell, the Rascals are to some extent entirely randomly-generated in threat as well as type, but it does seem as though you’re more likely to run into beefier ones if your own stats are fairly high. , The true terror of death is that you lose all your cards if you lose a fight. You’ll resurrect (unless you’re playing the one shot and done daily challenge mode) but you’ll be puny; though the initial monsters you’ll then encounter are puny too, goddamn but you’ll miss those beautiful cards you had a minute ago. A few minutes later, of course, all you care about is the new cards in your hand now. , It’s one of those games where death happens fast if you don’t exercise due diligence. You only have five hitpoints (though some cards can temporarily increase this) and it’s more than possible to lose all of these in the space of one fight. Including against embarrassingly weak foes. Avoiding this means watching the numbers carefully, and keeping a close eye on Loot Rascal’s other key mechanic, which is that it flips from day to night and back again every half-dozen turns. , , Some monsters get to attack first at night, others in the day, and attacking first is what this game is really all about. If your attack’s high enough you can often take out an enemy in one hit, while facing the occasional random miniboss (also randomly-named, as in Diablo) is no longer a guaranteed death sentence. , I’m aware I’ve spent most of this piece describing mechanics rather than offering opinions as such, and this is because that’s what Loot Rascals is underneath its gonzo, capering skin – a game of mechanics. Easy to learn, difficult to master mechanics, which you can never take your eye off. That it feels entirely like its own true-blue videogame and not like an adaptation of a CCG is testament to how cleanly all its many moving parts slots together. This is such a slick wee thing. , , There’s another neat feature somehow squeezed into this Jenga tower of ingenuity, whereby baddies rob a card from you if they beat you, and other players may then find that card by defeating bosses in their own games. And you, of course, might find their lost treasures, at which point you can decide whether to send it back to them or keep it. This has only happened to me a couple of times – I think the playerbase needs time to build up – but apparently this can result in rewards or payback, which I have not yet experienced. Probably because I die too quick. A lovely idea and one that, I suspect, will make more difference the more you invest in this. , Even so, I did feel as though I’d seen all the game was fairly early on – that it would be a matter of finessing my skills far more than it would be a voyage of discovery. While that’s true of Spelunky too, it did hook new players on the mystery of what might lie ahead, the increasing weirdness and menace of later areas, before, for some of us, becoming a ritual test of skill. See also The Binding Of Isaac, which this also has a few commonalities with. , , There’s a loose, comic story about rebuilding a big robot wrapped around the thing, but really it immediately becomes about endlessly bettering yourself. Leaderboards and daily challenges and all that jazz – long-term investment. Catnip for many people, but I don’t know that it got its hooks in deep enough to trigger that impulse in me. , Though Loot Rascals has been deeply charming for a couple of days, I can’t see myself returning to it over and over in that way. That said, the daily challenges do save it from an otherwise open-ended feel – each new area reached or mega-card found feels that much more momentous when death is absolute, rather than an inconvenience. , Funny, strange, sweet, accessible, as intricate as a Gordian knot with it. Loot Rascals is a smart piece of game design executed with delightful style. Even so, it feels as though the mechanics overwhelm all else – I do think it would benefit from offering more structure and goals in order to then earn the daily-play status it clearly desires.

I suspect that everyone who makes games wishes they’d made Spelunky. Effectively perfect game design, unconstrained by the heavy flab of spectacle. Loot Rascals [official site] takes that game’s random generation, escalating challenge, extreme balancing, minimal explaining and daily runs and applies it all to a slick, playful roguelite and collectable card game hybrid. Then slathers gloriously weird creature design all over it.

The colorful art, mascot character, and unique premise of using voodoo dolls is an alluring facade that seduces you in, but its charm is left at the door. Or at least I wish it did. The premise and exposition is all rushed in the first three minutes like a dishonest husband trying to change the subject when asked about what he was doing until 3:00am. It goes by so fast I could only reiterate what Vince himself says: "Um...okay.", Basically, a woman named Madam Charmaine runs a voodoo shop and owns magical Zombie Dust that the main antagonist, Kosmo the Inscrutable, wants and finally manages to steal thanks to his goons. The Zombie Dust isn't really explained but meant to be understood as a source of power the yet-unseen bad guy wants for no real reason. There is no further plot development until the end of the game, just occasional cutscenes of Vince and Kosmo, who looks like Sheen from Jimmy Neutron, tossing dated and unfunny (even in 2003) insults at each other. Other characters appear in a single level and have no bearing on the overall plot, serving as mere quest givers and targets of Vince's impotent vocal jabs., Not all games need to have developing narratives or complex character development, but when it's as bare as this, there is no foundation on which to establish character traits and from which to deviate from for humorous effect. Psychonauts has a very simple plot and one-note characters, but they are defined enough that their interactions are like that of aluminium and bromine, whereas Voodoo Vince's characters react like water and oil. Instead of comedy derived from each characters' inherent nature, we get surface-level breath insults and literal toilet humor., The aesthetic of Voodoo Vince is its strongest point, including a fantastic remastering job. Vince himself looks great and he fits in the colorful world quite nicely. Playing this game in 1080p at 60fps sometimes made me forget it was released in the same year as 2 Fast 2 Furious. Most of the enemy designs are bland, but I do like the redneck alligators and the "yiiip" sound they make, even if it perhaps too easy a design., , Considering masterful sound design and thematic music were critical in making games like Super Mario 64 and Banjo Kazooie so engaging, I had higher expectations than I realized for Voodoo Vince. While the voice acting is actually pretty good, you forget about it since the writing and humor are so poor. The soundtrack, however, was unexpectedly dull. When you visit locations like a carnival, a Louisiana swamp, and a haunted house, you would imagine some catchy music would accompany the levels to help sell the atmosphere. Instead the music is royalty-free tier without much variation, at best sounding like it belongs in The Sims. The sounds of attacking and picking up the few collectibles lack that oomph-factor, failing to entice you to collect more like the eggs in Banjo Kazooie do., So then, with a throwaway plot and average aesthetic, we're left to rely on the gameplay alone for entertainment. At its core, Voodoo Vince is a 3D platformer with collectibles and puzzle elements. Aside from moving and jumping, you can glide to gain more distance and perform either a slap or spin attack. Pressing both of the triggers will unleash a special voodoo power, which will play a cute animation where Vince injures himself, killing all the enemies in range. Unique actions are all performed in context-sensitive locations. You can collect more voodoo powers for special animations, such as Vince pooping in an outhouse and killing enemies with his stinky green gas, but they are merely different animations that have the same function., Other collectibles are bottles of Zombie Dust which give you extra health when you collect 100 and Skull Pages which, upon collecting all in a particular level, place a pink skull on the map that you must race to collect and gain extra meter for your voodoo power. On top of mediocre collection sounds, they aren't placed in thoughtful ways that test your platforming skills, and the skull races are downright annoying., Beads dropped from regular enemies charge your voodoo powers, but you'll usually avoid confrontation due to rudimentary and boring combat. Furthermore, voodoo powers don't harm bosses, so you won't really need the extra meter. And since most of your deaths will come from falling into bottomless pits rather than from the combat you'll avoid, you won't need extra health all that much either. So why collect them? I collected them all in my 100% playthrough of the game, and there is no reward nor even any sort of acknowledgment of your achievement. Collect the new voodoo powers if you're curious to see different animations, I guess., , I harp so much on collectibles because they extend an otherwise short game and collecting them is tedious rather than challenging or fun. They distract from the strongest point of the gameplay, the okonomiyaki-style level variety. Nearly each level is unique in its goals and puzzles, which in itself is interesting and makes the whole playthrough moderately enjoyable. The problem is none of the elements are around long enough to develop or compound into interesting mechanics you use through the game. They are over as soon as you understand what they are doing, and not all of them are fun., In one level early on, you have to carry a fuel tank from the bottom of a tall chamber to the very top, using elevators and avoiding fire, which is as fun as it sounds. Any wrong move makes the tank explode, sending you back to the start or to the halfway point where you can get another. Dropping a pixel of height makes it explode, and even standing too close to the wall on an elevator will cause the tank to clip on the way down and explode. You have to get past fire that spurts out on a timer, a mechanic as old as platformers themselves. , Other levels featuring a plane to fly around obstacles and an on-rails shooter are more entertaining, but their simplicity is nothing to write home about. You'd think some of them would explore the idea of harming Vince as a means to injure enemies, since the makers thought the idea had enough potential to warrant a voodoo doll as a main character, but that element is never used in a puzzle context., Searching for what made this game get a cult following, I thought perhaps it would be clever boss battles. They are unique in appearance, but in function they are not enthralling encounters. If you believe in the idea of bosses being a test of the abilities you have learned, you'll be disappointed as you just use basic actions known from the start, since you don't develop or learn any new skills throughout the game., , Bosses do not rely on your combat ability and, as previously mentioned, cannot be harmed by voodoo powers. There is one way to attack each, and you perform that same action three times with minimal development. The bosses may walk faster or throw a bit more debris, but that's it. You clear each by finding a way to harm Vince, using the power of voodoo to transmit that injury to the boss, which you'll often forget since that idea is not explored elsewhere except in those voodoo power animations. Attacks from the boss hurt Vince, but don't in-turn hurt the boss, weirdly., What little puzzle-solving or challenge there may be in the game is often explained away as soon as the level loads. Madam Charmaine narrates the level introduction, laying out exactly what you have to do. Bosses are no exception, where she'll explain how to win but not the act of harming Vince. Some of the "puzzles" such as shooting Vince at a certain target consume a lot of time if you miss. Others that make you perform the same action multiple times are tedious even if you never mess up, such as a level where you have to platform around the entire circumference of a room to hit a switch at least three times, and then a fourth time to get to the exit just beyond the switch. , With lackluster plot, awful comedy, and shallow gameplay, I just don't see where the following comes from. Voodoo Vince should be commended for trying to add variety and humor, but ultimately the execution is not there. Perhaps harsh on a game that is no worse than mediocre, I did experience brief nuggets of bliss, but they were rare. More often than not you'll be frustrated, leading you to believe you're the real victim when Vince sticks pins into himself.

Unfortunately, some of Hitman’s other shortcomings have remained over the year-long release schedule. Diving back in, I forgot just how crippled the game is if you’re not online – lose your Internet connection while playing, and you also lose all the secondary missions, unlocked weapons and gear, bonuses challenges, and even your in-game stats. I also ran into some slow-loading texture problems, which rendered Hitman’s iconic barcode tattoo into an inky smudge for minutes at a time, along with other textures in the environment. IO Interactive continues to rely on the same small pool of voice actors for NPCs, whose lame banter about politics, economics, and philosophy will make you wish everyone was on your hit list.

They sure don't make them like this anymore, but then I'm not sure they ever made them like this, period. The new Doom from id Software is an unexpected, masterful combination of hectic old-school shooting, smartly modern design conventions, sharp wit, and a lighthearted reverence, or more accurately, irreverence, for the hallowed legacy of Doom. At least three of those items aren't things I ever expected to see in another Doom game. After eight protracted years of development at id--a time period that included an acquisition by Bethesda, the departure of some legendary founders, and a complete reboot of this game's very nature--you could forgive even the most diehard Doom fan for setting their expectations pretty low. In light of all that, it's astounding this game ended up being as good as it is, but make no mistake: this is one of the most exhilarating, amusing, satisfying shooter campaigns in years, maybe ever.

