Early on, I feared Shiness might buckle under its own weight, both as a moderately-sized RPG from an indie studio and as an ambitious crowdfunded project. It doesn't make a great first impression., There are lots of moving parts, some of which aren't up to par in terms of execution, and some of which are simply dated. You'll solve rudimentary puzzles by weighing down switches with rocks, or by routing colored energy beams between nodes. You'll sit through uncomfortably still cutscenes in which characters stand there, chatting at length. You'll wonder if things are ever going to improve. They will., The game's fantasy setting and anthropomorphic characters stem from a manga; in my case, that meant I didn't fully grasp who was doing what or why at first. I'm still sort of hazy, even now, though some of that is intentional. Shiness throws you right in with two protagonists, Chado and Poky, crashing their airship in an unwelcoming land. It's not that we haven't seen warring kingdoms, elemental spirits, or floating islands before, but I struggled to keep up with the menagerie of proper nouns., , The short of it is that Chado (amusingly pronounced "Shadow") can see and speak with the Shiness, a spirit of great importance and the impetus for him getting caught up in a wider conflict., Truth be told, you can get along fine with Shiness even if you skim through its familiar, text-heavy narrative. The story was serviceable enough to keep my attention, but I found the generally lovely art direction, pleasant music, and engaging combat system to be the true motivating forces., The game is split into open-ended but discrete zones that are conjoined by loading screens. The general flow goes a little something like this: You'll catch wildlife for parts you can sell or barter with to acquire better gear; strike monsters to initiate closed-arena fights; and use character-specific abilities to circumvent obstacles. Some areas are wide open fields, others are snowy mountains, and others still are light dungeons. Aside from a few instances where I was utterly stuck on how to proceed due to vague instructions, I found the pacing to be great and the constant variety of landscapes surprising., The other high point is the fighting itself. Shiness hinges its combat system on punches, kicks, blocks, dodge rolls, and parries, as well as RPG-staple elements like water, earth, and fire that can be refueled by "channeling" at the appropriate time. There's... a lot to learn. You'll recruit a five-character party, but you can only ever have three active members as you roam the world, and fights are one-on-one (with your two pals buffing you, or tagging in as needed). By the end, you'll need proficiency with all of those aspects and fast reflexes, particularly when it comes to the brutally unforgiving multi-phase bosses., , In general, Shiness does a decent job of keeping you on your toes without feeling too overwhelming or unfair, but certain enemies do have a tendency to use spammy tactics, forcing you to play similarly or stockpile healing items. It's also not as visually polished as it could be. From the outside coming in, my big concern for the game was that the combat would eventually become stale, but it ended up being intricate and demanding enough to hold my interest the whole way through., I appreciated that the more drawn-out, fetch-some-trinket quests are largely relegated to side activities, helping to maintain a brisk critical path. But part of that quick pace can also regrettably be attributed to uninspired puzzles, which ask so little of players as to feel obvious and boring., All told, Shiness is an uneven adventure, but one I'm glad I undertook. While it's too ambitious for its own good, deep down, and despite some hard-to-overlook faults, you can just sense that this was a passion project. I'm not sure if Enigami will get to make a sequel, but if it does, I'd be up for it., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Shiness: The Lightning Kingdom reviewed by Jordan Devore, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Who do you voodoo? Voodoo won't woo you, With the release of Banjo Kazooie-inspired Yooka Laylee, the upcoming Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy, and the revival of Psychonauts, 3D platformers are re-emerging in mainstream gaming. Whether this will just be a short-lived nostalgia trip for gaming as a whole or if the genre is here to stay remains to be seen, but a number of re-releases have given us a chance to re-evaluate old classics or even have a first crack at the more niche titles that slipped by us., Originally an Xbox exclusive released back in 2003, Voodoo Vince never received more than a cult following, failing to garner the widespread acclaim that its peers got. Myself a lifelong fan of 3D platforming collect-a-thons, I was eager for a chance to not only play but review one I missed. Unfortunately, Voodoo Vince fails to make the big-league cut with Psychonauts and Banjo Kazooie, instead faltering to the practice squad among the likes of Croc: Legend of the Gobbos and Blinx: The Time Sweeper., , 
Full Throttle Remastered [official site] is the return of perhaps the most under-appreciated of the classic 90s LucasArts adventures. Double Fine’s remastering will hopefully go a long way to seeing it gain a reputation among a new generation. Here’s wot I think:, , There’s a temptation to take my review of Day Of The Tentacle Remastered, then Find/Replace “DOTT” for “Full Throttle”. Double Fine are onto a good thing here, taking some of the best loved games of the 1990s, redrawing the art, remixing the sound, and releasing them in working condition for modern PCs. May they not stop at LucasArts games, and do the rest of the industry too. It can feel difficult to add much more to the discussion, because if you hate the new art but love the new sound, switch the first off and the second on. It’s Full Throttle, it’s the same great-but-flawed adventure, the same gorgeously detailed but far too short tale of biker Ben in a future world where cars no longer have wheels., Then of course it occurs to me not everyone is ancient. While there’s pretty much no excuse for not knowing about Day Of The Tentacle and Sam &amp; Max: Hit The Road, it’s far more feasible that someone not born before the 90s would have entirely missed Full Throttle. Not because it didn’t succeed – it was one of LucasArt’s most successful adventures, selling well over a million copies, ten times what they’d expected. But it’s the one that’s mentioned after DOTT, S&amp;M, Grim Fandango, Fate Of Atlantis, and of course the Monkey Island series. It can lay claim to a greater place in people’s memories than LOOM, sure, but it’s fair to say it hasn’t received the long-term adulation given elsewhere. And that’s not really fair., 
The most appealing part of the collection is A Fragmentary Passage, which follows Aqua after the events of Birth By Sleep. The episode took me about three hours to complete, but if you collect every treasure, you can extend that an extra hour. Aqua is one of my favorite characters due to her selflessness and determination to save the world, and getting some resolution to her story was satisfying. I won't spoil anything, but playing the episode only makes me more excited for what potential role she might play in Kingdom Hearts III.
Halo Wars 2’s story is the most compelling aspect of Creative Assembly’s console-friendly RTS. The characters’ depth made me want to learn more about them, and the pre-rendered cut scenes – produced by arthouse Blur – feature enough spectacle to fill a Summer blockbuster. Unfortunately, the narrative ends on a frustrating cliffhanger, which left me with uneven feelings about the story as a whole – and the rest of Halo Wars 2 is a similar mix of emotions.
The Odd Gentlemen have done a fine job with its storytelling, though the puzzles and the ways they’ve been incorporated in the tale have been inconsistent. I thought the previous chapter leaned too heavily on them, and while they’re still abundant in the conclusion, they fit well overall. Another fun escape-room style section requires careful observation and exploration. The final section is a puzzle-heavy showdown with the villain that is satisfying and interesting. The only real misstep is a retread of an earlier music-box puzzle that I had to brute force my way through, thanks to poor in-game lighting, my TV’s color calibration, or something else.
The gameplay remains the same from previous episodes, with you either navigating crime scenes and stringing together clues to figure out what happened or fighting off bad guys in quick-time event sequences. The animation and intensity of these combat sequences are enjoyable. If you’re annoyed by limited interactivity, you might find these sequences tiresome, but even then, they’re mercifully brief.
The Witness provides further evidence that video games are approaching the same degree of authorship as more traditional forms of media, in the sense that Braid players will immediately recognize this as another game made by Jonathan Blow. Both games offer devilishly, sometimes painfully tough puzzles built around detailed logic systems that you're expected to intuit and employ with next to no guidance. Both have the uncanny ability to alternately make you feel like a genius and an idiot. Both games tend toward an austere style of philosophizing that can come off as heavy handed or self-indulgent, but which nonetheless seems to flow directly from the individual consciousness of their creator. The Witness matches and then surpasses the exhilarating a-ha moments of Braid's most unconventional puzzles, while also one-upping the simple, discrete platforming levels of Blow's previous game with a sprawling world that's as impressively interconnected as it is starkly beautiful and laden with secrets. This game has been dogged by comparisons to Myst throughout its production, but the comparison is so apt that it's hard not to use that old CD-ROM standard as a starting point. The similarities are overt--again you're a nameless, wordless protagonist exploring a deserted island full of bespoke contraptions and no small amount of mystery--and also tonal, with a softly brooding atmosphere punctuated only by your footsteps and the wind. But the way you engage with the world of The Witness is more focused than Myst's legion of various levers and dials, since all of your interactions with the game come in the form of maze-like line puzzles displayed on screens dotted all over the island. Hundreds of them. There's no inventory, no physics objects to play with, no jumping or even stepping off of ledges. Just panel after panel after panel to complete as you peel back the many layers of the island's intricate secrets. But The Witness is much, much more than just a series of standalone logic puzzles packaged up in a pretty graphical wrapper. Ferreting out the nature of the many different types of puzzles that exist on the island--how their individual rule sets work and interact with one another, what effect they have on their surroundings, and in turn how their surroundings can affect them--is 100 percent of what there is for you to do in this game, and the extent to which you have to really work for many of the solutions can be exceptionally gratifying as you fumble and reason your way through the game's many hours. As such, ruining any of the surprise about how these things work would do a disservice to the people who are really going to enjoy this game, so I'll try to be vague in describing what's in here, and I'd encourage you to read and watch no more about this game than you need to decide if you're interested in playing it. The game never offers a word of explicit tutorial, instead loading you directly into the game world and turning you loose to explore and learn and solve. Most of the island's distinctive areas offer a relatively simple starting set of puzzles that "teach" you the puzzle rules that apply to that area. In practice, the game doesn't spell anything out whatsoever. You learn entirely by doing, and the sparse information you can glean from the trial and error of figuring out the starter puzzles is immediately useful in some cases--allowing you to go forth and apply what you've just learned to more complex problems and push forward in the game--but agonizingly unclear in others. In a couple of spots, after being stuck on more complex later puzzles for hours, I had to return to earlier similar puzzles and simply stare at them, asking myself questions about how they worked and what sorts of pieces they were made out of, before the lightbulb flickered on and I could progress. But the lightbulb moment is why you play this game. It's certainly possible to overthink what it is the game wants out of you--in a few instances, I eventually realized the puzzle I was trying to solve in my mind was harder than what was actually in front of me--and in general, the puzzles in each area are consistent about adhering to the theme of that area, so frequently, you just need to stop and focus your thought process. The iterative nature of the puzzle design, the way subsequent harder puzzles build on the concepts and lessons you've already absorbed--not to mention the specific, nearly hint-less environment in which I played the game--often made me realize that I was actually capable of solving harder problems than I thought I was, if I just invested a little more time, modified my approach, and focused on different concepts or details. At those moments I had to consciously stop and ask myself what I could do differently (and I could actually feel myself suppressing that impatient urge to just run to the Internet for help), which actually felt like a fun little voyage of self-discovery. Absent any sort of guide or hints, you'll have to think, a lot, to put some of this stuff together. The puzzles run a fairly even split between two distinctive styles. Many are abstract problems that operate entirely on their own self-contained logic--typically signified by various colored symbols that appear directly on the maze screen--and feel like the sort of thing you'd see on a standardized aptitude test. Then there's a more organic style of puzzle that often requires you to look and think outside of the maze's borders to the larger game world to hit on a solution. Sometimes these two types of puzzles mix and overlap. Sometimes they subvert or seemingly break their own rules. Absolutely everything about both the puzzles and your surroundings is in play, from your perspective to the lighting to the type of input method you use. You learn very quickly that you can't necessarily take any detail in this game for granted, no matter how minor it might seem. That uncertainty creates a profound mystique, a feeling that anything could happen on this strange island where the rules of reality are more than a little flexible. It's hard to convey the range of creativity in the more complex puzzles and the way they integrate into the game's world without diving into a lot of specific examples, but the range is significant. It's the kind of thing you get really excited about and desperately want to share or discuss with other people when you see and solve it. It's great stuff. The Witness didn't need to be a beautiful game for most of its important parts to work, but it sure doesn't hurt that the island is exceptionally gorgeous. The art design takes a profound less-is-more tack, building a world out of simple geometry and sparse texture mapping, and instead focusing its attention on a strong use of color and lighting to bring out a significant amount of organic detail that's too exaggerated to be called realistic, but also stops short of becoming cartoonish. This saturated, brightly lit aesthetic repeatedly brought The Wind Waker to mind, which is about as respectable a comparison as you can make in my book. The game also seems to use the trick (one that I first remember making the zones in World of Warcraft so moody) of subtly shifting the color grading as you cross the boundary between regions, so that you rapidly get the feeling you're in a different place than the one you just left. That's a handy trick to have in a relatively small land mass that jams desert, swamp, ice, mountain, jungle and forest locations all together in close proximity. And again, the visuals aren't just for show; so many of the presentational aspects play into puzzle solutions and other secrets in clever, satisfying ways. Once again I'm sitting here wondering if I should drop a couple of neat examples to illustrate the point, but no. That stuff is too much fun to discover for yourself.
Having an AI partner join in during gameplay sequences isn’t new to the series, but it feels more fleshed-out this time around thanks to context-specific takedowns and the rapport between the brothers. Like Uncharted 2, the running theme of Uncharted 4 is doing everything its predecessor did, only much better. Everything feels more inspired than Drake’s Deception, from the storyline to the setpiece moments to subtle gameplay touches and animations.
Every week we send Brendan to investigate the seedy underworld of early access. This time, interrogating the robots of Bot Colony [official site]., Bot Colony, according to its own boast, is “the first video game featuring intelligent conversation as its key gameplay feature”. You speak into a microphone and ask questions of the robot characters, or give them commands. You might remember Chris attempting to put books on shelves using this voice recognition feature. You might also remember him failing miserably. Well, it’s been some time since then and we thought we’d give it another shot in this video special. Read on and watch my own doomed attempt to communicate with mankind’s newest mistake., This time, the robot has the added challenge of interpreting a Celtic accent, a task at which voice recognition is famously terrible. I am used to changing my vowels into a mock English for the benefit of confused administration staff who don’t understand when I say that I was born in “aidy-aid”. And there is definitely some of that here. But I was not prepared for the level of misunderstanding these robots would have at the words “name” or “who” and their lack of comprehension of individual letters of the alphabet. At the bottom of the screen you can see where my words were interpreted., This is supposed to be a training sequence, the first of three planned missions but I sadly would not get any further. The robot has witnessed a break-in. A spy has stolen an important piece of tech (an advanced sensor) from a Japanese scientist’s home. You need to question the bot and piece together the exact order of events through its responses. Sometimes you get video records of what the bot has seen, but often he will just rattle off some facts in a hugely specific fashion. The robot’s name is Jimmy. He is the worst domestic robot I have ever met., , As you can see the interrogation was almost entirely fruitless. Voice recognition and AI responses are not really at a stage when you can have an “intelligent conversation” with a machine, no matter what the game’s blurb might say. Even Alexa and Siri fall to pieces under pressure. However, the experience of repeating the word “who” into a microphone countless times has made me sympathise for all future homicide detectives who bring in a robotic witness. It’s true that you can edit the phrase you’re saying in the typebox, or just type all your questions from the start. But that kinda defeats the purpose and appeal of the game. It’s a mystery about chatting to robots, not texting them., I’m not sure what the thinking was behind having so many Japanese names in the story, either. Surely an English-language machine would be more comfortable with ‘John’ or ‘Sarah’, rather than ‘Masaya’ and ‘Ayame’ (no matter what demands the plot has)? And surely the player, more likely to be English-speaking than Japanese-speaking, would be equally glad of simple, recognisable names in a conversation that requires clarity. It’s just one of the world’s details that feels counterproductive., , Before you begin, Windows sets up your voice recognition. You have to speak certain lines into the microphone as part of a voice test that lasts about fifteen minutes, much of it instructions on how to treat the robot (instructions which hint at the low level of cognition your robot is really going to have). But seeing that one test was clearly not enough, I exited out and tried to give the machine more to work with. That’s when you see me bumping out to desktop, whereupon I read out the game’s convoluted back story in my best storytime voice and hoped that it would be enough. It was not enough., I’m sure this is working more confidently for some than for myself. Aside from the accent issue, more voice tests are supposed to lead to better results. But each test takes a long time and there’s no guarantee that three or four or five tests will make the interpreter as clever as it would need to be to follow directions that are more complex than “pick up X” or “walk forwards two metres”. I also realised with hindsight that many words are probably saved in the robots thick skull as American. So when I said, “turn on the tap”, I really ought to have said “turn on the faucet”. Although there is the added trouble of not knowing which objects in the house can be interacted with and which are purely environmental. It’s all very messy., , The truth is, I went in knowing that it would be janky. But I didn’t expect it to be this janky. And I wanted to be surprised at the machine’s awareness. This comes across sometimes, when you insult it, for instance, and it detects the hostility (sorry, Jimmy). But mostly the game is a victim of a multi-layered problem. First, the voice recognition can be laughable. Second, the robot’s interpretation of your questions and commands is as overly strict and non-malleable as you’d expect. Third, the actual “game” itself doesn’t help matters. Trying to collect video recordings isn’t very exciting and putting pieces of furniture back into their pre-thievery positions is no more fun than when you played ‘spot the difference’ on the back of your Honey Cheerios box., No. It is a game wholly reliant and marketed on its technology, which feels so much more absurd the more you attempt to communicate with the machine. I suspect it will be better for people with hours of voice recognition testing behind them (not to mention the exact accent the robot was designed for), and there is also an element of learning the right commands and sticking to that cheatsheet of robot lines. It’s also admirable, from a technology perspective, to pursue projects like this. The ideal – to talk to a robot and have it understand you – is one worth chasing. But with a learning process as daft as this, I couldn’t face going through it all when the story and surrounding tasks are so wafer thin. That, and Jimmy really, really annoyed me.
Even if the campaign’s conspiracy feels a little rote, Willamette is the best playground that’s been offered yet. It has everything you’d expect to find in a small town, from quirky shops to hardware store and homes – and the all-new Willamette Memorial Megaplex mall. Best of all, it’s easy to navigate. Unlike Dead Rising 3’s network of blocked-off freeways, the roads are clear – zombie hordes notwithstanding – and you can circle the map without leaving your car. You want to get out to explore the various shops and interior spaces, though. Dozens of weapon blueprints and other collectibles are hidden within the well-detailed environments, and you can do so at your leisure.
Sun & Moon feels significantly different from previous Pokémon games. X & Y may have marked the series’ biggest visual change, but Sun & Moon shows Game Freak is willing to re-examine Pokémon’s tenured mechanics in order to improve the game. Sun & Moon is still Pokémon, but it showcases some of the biggest changes the series has ever seen – and that’s a good thing.
Battles are methodical and thoughtful. Button-mashers quickly run out of stamina, leaving them vulnerable. A refreshing amount of tension comes at the start of battle, and I loved how often the initial moments of contact would consist of me and my opponent circling one another while switching stances, looking for weaknesses and openings. This kind of psychological engagement is at its best in one-on-one duels or two-on-two brawls, where you’re able to focus your attention and get into your opponent’s head – and hopefully remove it. 
What makes Color Splash such a tremendous disappointment is the fact that so much of it is great. Throughout the game’s lengthy story, it consistently made me laugh with its clever writing and numerous nods to Mario history. Prism Island plays host to a wide variety of locations and activities, and I was always curious what the game would be having me do next. Restoring color to the world is Mario’s goal, and doing so tasks him with appearing on a game show, assembling a train, organizing a tea party at a haunted hotel, and a ton more. It even manages to sneak in some great parodies and references that rarely seem forced.
If Quick Manage still sounds like too much, you can just play out critical situations during the season, which are prompted during the simulation – another nice addition that adds some gameplay to the menu-focused experience.
If you're looking to jump online and throw down against players across the globe, Super Bomberman R's online suite gives you the option to play quickplay battles with customizable rules, or the more standard league battles that let you play to level up into new, more competitive player pools. These simple options could deliver a satisfying way to play, except that network instability renders most matches unplayable due to lag. Even when I tell the game to only find those who have a "good" network connection, the matches feature some degree of latency, with the level of impact ranging from a simple half-second delay from command input to execution, to players running in place and falling completely unresponsive.
No Man's Sky feels like it's been in the public consciousness for an eternity. In reality, it's closer to two-and-a-half years. All that build-up, all those weighty expectations, all of it began a little over half a US Presidential term ago at, of all places, the 2013 VGX Awards. Remember that show? If you do, it's probably because of what a disaster it was. But somewhere in there, tucked amid Joel McHale's active disdain for his hosting role and a bunch of ill-fitting Odd Future interview segments, maybe you remember Sean Murray of Hello Games unveiling his studio's latest creation, an impossibly huge-sounding space exploration game called No Man's Sky. Maybe you remember him nervously shifting as Geoff Keighley grilled him on the details of the game, looking down at his shoes as he described his vision of the ultimate "You see that mountain? You can go there" game, a procedurally generated universe of over 18 quintillion planets, all explorable from pole to pole. Maybe you remember even McHale himself, so detached and sarcastic throughout the show, letting out a brief eruption of genuine-feeling incredulity at the scope of what Murray's small team was trying to accomplish.
On paper, this should all be great, and sometimes it really does come together to produce something unique. Imagine: You’re deep into KPA controlled territory, sprinting from building to building, heading towards one of the numerous side missions (called “strikepoints”) while staying out of sight as best as you can. You’ve managed to silently take down a few solitary guards, and have posted up on the second floor of a devastated brownstone so that you can safely recon the next length of land. There’s an armored patrol slowly rolling down the boulevard between you and your target, and that’s why you don’t notice the chittering of the drone behind you until it’s too late, its blue lights turning red in alert. It flies away before you can knock it out of the sky, and then you hear the distorted horn howling from above: The airship is here, and that means the KPA’s troops are on their way. You pick a few off with your marksman rifle, but their numbers are mounting quickly. A sniper round finds your shoulder, and you realize you’re out of medkits. Time to run.
Many puzzles require ridiculous leaps of reason or sheer luck in order to be solved. This is the fault of many point-and-click games, but Memoranda’s flaws are reminiscent of my worst experiences with the genre (like the infamous inflatable rubber duck puzzle in The Longest Journey). Often, I was combining irrelevant objects or relying on trial and error to progress. Solving these illogical puzzles is frustrating, and the laborious process doesn’t feel satisfying when you finally arrive at the solution. 
Rock Band VR combines familiar conventions with enough new elements to make the experience novel and exciting for fans of the genre. Taking full advantage of the technology, Rock Band VR puts players in the first-person perspective with little UI clogging up your view, a departure from the view in mainline Rock Band games where the concert video-style presentation is background to the prominent note highway. Instead, you're free to look around the stage, with the only UI appearing in a chord guide that floats above the crowd, and a combo meter on the head of your guitar. This new approach plays into the strengths of virtual reality, removing the barrier that exists with previous series between the player and the screen. When a song I love like Foo Fighters' "Everlong" or Megadeth's "Hangar 18" comes on, it's difficult not to get into it. I found myself tapping my foot, nodding my head, and even holding the guitar in a more stylish manner during my favorite tracks.
Unfortunately, the remaining modes fall short. Rhythm Recital challenges you to play along to several iconic songs spanning Mario’s three decades. I loved that I could select songs ranging from the Overworld Theme from the original Super Mario Bros. to the Super Bell Hill theme from Super Mario 3D World, but the instrument parts feel only vaguely related to the music being played. Rather than playing the actual music from the games, you’re relegated to adding small flourishes and additions to the songs as they play automatically. Coinathlon is a repetitive mess of a mode where you play the same three coin-collection minigames on repeat. Each coin you collect moves your character a space forward; the first to complete a set number of laps wins. 
Predictable, often boring, and finishing off with an abrupt ending – this episode disappointed me in many ways. However, I was also drawn in by the tragic relationships that arise out of Bruce’s dual lives as a billionaire and the Caped Crusader. Even though City of Light doesn’t make that the focal point of the episode (as the best episodes in the series have done), it still gives those elements enough time to make the experience entertaining. I won’t spoil anything, but the ending is strong enough that I hope Telltale takes another shot at the Bat and builds something off this sturdy foundation. 
Just when you've mastered the basics, Horizon's massive world opens up. Aloy's first journey out west provides a remarkable sense of discovery; the new desert landscape is teeming with different, deadlier machines, along with new settlements to explore and beautiful vistas to behold. Horizon's mysteries really sink their teeth in here; while it may lack the power and meaningful choices of narrative-driven series like The Witcher and Mass Effect, Guerrilla has crafted compelling lore for its post-apocalyptic world. Unlike most open-world games, I looked forward to finding new audio logs and emails that detail the old world's collapse, and the modern-day conflicts between the isolationist Nora tribe, sun-worshipping Carja, and combative Oseram give Aloy's quest more meaning and complexity. Most importantly, Horizon isn't afraid to delve deep into heady sci-fi topics, and the myriad mysteries it sets up are all answered in a marathon of revelations and explanations toward the end of the game. Despite its flaws and foibles, Horizon's story unexpectedly became one of the major driving forces of the game for me.
Sniper Elite 4 puts you in control of Karl Fairburne, the heroic sniper from the past entries. This time, Fairburne’s adventures take him to Italy to assist the resistance forces. The campaign, which consists of eight lengthy missions, deploys you to a large open area with little more than your loadout and a map marked with objectives. While each mission has a few primary missions that must be completed, the map is littered with meaningful secondary objectives, such as taking out a pesky sniper, destroying artillery, or swiping classified Nazi documents. These goals are all on the way to your primary targets. Because of this, I love planning out my route at the start of each mission.
Most shrines feature hidden treasure chests. Frequently, these contain equipment like melee weapons, bows, or shields. I lost track of how many times I’d get to one, only to be told that my inventory was full. When this happened, I’d step away from the chest, cycle through what I was holding, and toss several items at my feet before grabbing my new toy. It’s frustrating at times, but you thankfully can upgrade your storage capacity by collecting hidden seeds and delivering them to a specific character.
The Sexy Brutale is a stately English mansion that has been converted into a casino for the richest and most eccentric personalities in the world. If you’re lucky, you can walk away from your visit with newfound riches and tales of daring. If you’re unlucky, The Sexy Brutale’s staff murders you. Unfortunately for most guests, the house usually wins.
Most of these modes are anchored by the minigame collection, which features a diverse array of hit-or-miss offerings. I liked minigames like one where you shoot balls of paint at a picture to try and cover more space than your opponent, and another where characters ride Wigglers around and smash into each other. For every good minigame, however, there is another I hated to see pop up. One made me blow into my 3DS’s microphone until I was blue in the face to move sailboats down a course, while another does nothing more than deliver a subpar match-three puzzle experience. Even the special boss battles, which are among the strongest minigames available, only offer a handful to cycle through.
the feeling of surviving in spite of the odds. Facing off against a series of ever-stronger aliens and obstacles as I inched further away from my planetary outpost, a series of good decisions (and a well-arranged deck) can turn tepid luck into a fighting chance. But as often as it gave me just enough to pull through, Loot Rascals threw me into situations where I may as well have folded.
This aspect keeps you on your toes at all times, and even makes farming recipes, gold, and crafting materials an adrenaline rush. You never know who you might run into, and also provides you with an option to get plenty of resources even when you’re not playing the game by sending your troops out on missions to slaughter other players. The loot loop is tantalizing, and because some elements of each floor are random, it rarely gets boring.
, It’s old-fashioned for a number of reasons. The battles are turn-based 3v3 jab-fests and it’s all centered on travels across a hex-based map. You pick three party members at the start, whose classes you can choose and appearance you can stylise to a very limited degree. The blacksmith has a smashy hammer and can stun enemies, for instance. The hunter has a bow and a bonus against flying perps like bats, as well as being better at sneaking on the world map (more on this later)., I began my first and ill-fated misadventure with one of these hunters, to whom I granted a white beard and the name Old Lars. He was accompanied by a Minstrel called Sally McWrecker, who damaged her enemies by playing pleasant music at them, and a Scholar named Mr Paulson, who attacked things by reading from a book I can only presume was so boring it physically hurt anyone who listened., , There’s a mandatory plotline involving the King’s recent assassination and the Queen’s attempts to discover the truth. Off you go to wherever she sends you along this questline, where you discover that the game is really a race against a force called Chaos. This increases with every passing day, adding skulls to a little Chaos meter above the map. They also seemed to pop up when party members died, though it’s hard to say if that was the cause or just coincidence. The exact pattern and reasons for the advance of human headbones isn’t very well explained. Nevertheless, the skulls can be set back by completing the Queen’s questlines, making it feel like an XCOM-style race against encroaching bad things. Higher levels of Chaos cause weird things to come and hinder your progress. After a few skulls were added to the map a “hangman” began to haunt my heroes, who became assaulted by surprise ghosts wherever they walked., , To complicate things, there is also a day and night cycle, with more dangerous and numerous enemies popping up when the sun goes down. You move around the map turn by turn, each party member moving independently. If one of your little reprobates gets into a disagreement with a giant bee or dancing imp, the others will only join if they are in range of the fight – generally speaking, this means within two or three hexes. But the same applies to nearby foes. They’ll come to the bee’s aid if they live within the blood-red range of hexes of their own pal. As far as I experienced it though, you can’t fight more than three baddies at a time. You’ll know which enemies are coming to help your arch-nemesis, the bee, by their appearance on the map – blacked out and inactive means they aren’t coming to the fight. Highlighted and coloured means they are coming to bust your head., , But when the daytime rolls around, the skeletons and ghosts and witches evaporate (mostly) and you get more room to manoeuvre. It’s possible to sneak by enemies completely, or “ambush” them, which means their pals won’t come calling even if they are in range. But this relies on the roll of unseen dice. These dice are more or less the gooey centre of the entire game. Choices and percentages litter both the world map and the battle screen. Your chance to hit anything is determined by luck, which can be stacked in your favour in various ways (equipment, stat boosts, herbs, hats) and your chance to sneak past a beastman or ambush an ogre is likewise affected by this., However, to keep your characters from being too far out of your own control, there’s a “focus” system. You can right click on any choice or attack to add a point of focus and increase the chance of succeeding. Each character has their own pool of these focus points and you can recharge them by sleeping in inns, setting up a camp, eating special herbs, or levelling up at a super-convenient time. There’s still a sense of risk and reward here, because although adding focus to an attempt to shoot a cultist with an arrow will increase the chance of landing a good and strong hit, it doesn’t guarantee anything unless you sink all your focus points into that task – a decision best kept for when success is absolutely necessary., , The whole game hinges on this mechanic and quickly becomes a quest about using your focus points wisely, saving them for a critical moment or making it rain like a rich gangster when you know there’s a town just a few hexes away for replenishment. Then, of course, you reach the town and discover that you don’t have enough money to let everyone sleep in the inn., This is the other side of the RPG coming into play. There are a lot of places to visit – caves to explore, camps to raid, catacombs to graverob, towns to go shopping in – and a lot of enemies to fight. But there is precious little time and precious little money. You are often scraping the bottom of your purse to afford one good thing – a new staff for your scholar, a single suit of armour for your blacksmith, a teleport scroll so that your hunter can catch up with the others on the map before night falls and he gets cut off by a gang of mardy skeletons. I’m always pleased when a game has the courage to put you in a rich world as a poor person. Decisions on what to buy or where to go feel important and lasting because of this. Buying a ship might get you to the next quest location in record time, but it’s so expensive it will leave you all stoney broke for the next day or two., , As for the time constraints, I’ll give you an example. In my first game, I took on an extra quest in our hometown. All we needed to do, it said, was deliver a leather pouch with some unknown contents to a nearby town in the outskirts of the local swamp. Easy. But no road is empty in For The King. Or rather, there are no roads. Just a wilderness full of irksome bats and huge stone hulks. We finally did reach the town but because of the time it had taken us night had already fallen, which made all the backtracking to take on our original (more important) quest all the more difficult. By the time we reached the first chaos generator in the final dungeon of the first quest, we were at 3 out of 5 Chaos kulls, which was, I felt, cutting it pretty close., , That sense of scrounging and under-epuipped-ness is pleasing to any thoroughbred adventurer/hapless victim. Here, things are made even more difficult by the party system, or the lack thereof. You move each hero individually, they all have their own purse of money and their own inventory bags. Only when they’re near each other can they swap gold or items. The game also randomises (to a degree) how much each hero can travel during their turn, some able to move farther than others, leading to surprise fights in which your people are split up and have to fend for themselves., Even the battle mechanics prioritise individual actions over the actions of a sensible party. One day on our adventures, Sally McWrecker and Mr Paulson found themselves facing down some bats without the help of their archer pal, because he was lagging behind a few hexes. This normally wouldn’t be a problem, except the bats had a huge golem friend who came to join the fight. He had 38 health and his punches could deal huge damage to my scruffy pair of low-level vagabonds. Seeing that the fight was not going in our favour, I clicked on the “flee” option during Sally’s turn, which if successful would send us one hex back and end the turn but leave us in safety. At least, that is what I gleaned from the hovering tooltip., , What really happened was this: Sally McWrecker rolled a successful “flee” action and slunk away from the fight with a pathetic wave, leaving Mr Paulson, by far the weakest and most vulnerable of the trio, totally alone, whereupon he was succinctly punched to death by a living rock., , Luckily, you can revive a character just by visiting the hex their corpse is on (the enemies take a walk after a lost fight) and picking them up. Whereas a true ‘game over’ will come down upon your heads if your entire party dies in the battle screen. In the open map this is less likely, but in the trap-filled, multi-fight, mulit-layered dungeons it is much more likely, since you don’t get the reward or complete the relevant quest unless you buck up and see it through to the end., Here you have to fight wave after wave of enemies, but each one offers good loot and often drops herbs that can be used to heal or regain lost focus points between the dungeon’s rooms. But these dungeons are still not easy, as Old Lars will tell you after he got entangled by a cursed witch and was forced to watch his friends die before he too was helplessly stabbed to pieces by an unfettered bone warrior., , In short, it isn’t a pleasant walk through Pallet town. The limitations on your party – the scrubby equipment they find or can afford, their walking speed, their lack of healing items or gold coin – all serve to make it a solid romp full of those tiny decisions and random occurrences that can alter the course of your game for better or worse., There is one big problem I feel, in that the main quest is the same at every restart. The map is newly generated each time, yes, but the quest from the Queen always stays the same. After a while I just wanted to explore the world at my own pace for once. There are many towns you won’t even think of visiting, because they aren’t on the Queen’s pre-ordained list of stopovers, or even placed along the way., , This main quest itself is also blurby fantasy pish, without an ounce of humour or character. This is something that surprised me, considering the visual style of the game is so cute and cartoony, perfectly suited to a sillier story and characters who don’t take their existence as undead skeleton warriors too seriously. Unfortunately, the humour and cheer has to be found between your own rash or botched decisions and the bad luck of your three poverty-stricken losers, or in the daft over-the-top ragdoll deaths of your victims. That humour is there, certainly. The sight of Sally skulking away like a coward during that one fight was enough to make me laugh anyway. But I still feel like the creators are missing an easy window to keep things short-winded and free of dull fantasy mumbo-jumbo. One of the first things you see after starting a new game is a wall of lore-filled text about the Kingdom and the Queen and the Chaos and YAWN YAWN YAWN., , Putting those concerns aside, however, For The King retains a good sense of pacing and toughness. Even the easy mode can slip you up and bash you on the noggin with a gang of wretched sea hags for which you are sorely under-prepared. It feels at times like an old-fashioned turn-based party JRPG that has learned to fight like a roguelike, embracing randomness and strange loot. During one dungeon crawl, Sally McWrecker was only equipped with a shield. One of her options in the fight was to pull out a random weapon from her backpack. She did this and whipped out a glass sword I had received from doing that time-consuming delivery job. I’d forgotten about this weapon. It cut massive chunks of health off the enemies. I was very happy. If I had only read the item’s description more thoroughly, I would not have been so surprised when the sword shattered to pieces after one final blow against an unworthy skeleton, who himself shattered to pieces, probably laughing. Sally was again reduced to punching her enemies in the belly with her bare hands., It’s silly moments like that which harbour the magic of For The King. As ever, early access means things may change, and I certainly hope that there comes some mode in which the Queen’s orders and main quests can be thoroughly ignored. But for now, if you’re seeking some badly-planned misadventure, and a scurrilous death, you could do a lot worse.
Though camera problems and outdated level design are present at times, the moments of exhilaration, discovery, and satisfaction far outweigh those pitfalls. It feels like ages since I've played something like Yooka-Laylee. This is a game that was built for those who look back with fondness on the classics that spawned it, and in that regard, it delivers completely. 
Surviving in the world serves as an important build-up to the ultimate goal, which is defined early on: Defeat Ganon. In Breath of the Wild, Link is not trying to prevent the villain’s resurrection. Ganon is there the moment Link wakes, visible in the distance. His evil presence is clear from nearly every vantage point on the map as a disturbing, glowing evil and it has a tangible effect on the world. I felt it at every moment, whether it was by seeing Ganon in the distance or by talking to Hyrulians living under his oppression. Seeing the goal from the moment I started the game also made my final sprint to defeat Ganon hugely rewarding. When I finally decided I was ready to face Ganon, it felt like the culmination of a lifetime of preparation that ended with a hugely satisfying finale.
Despite Star Fox Zero's resemblance to Star Fox 64 in terms of visual style and stage format/progression, my initial concerns centered on control. In most of its pre-release messaging, Nintendo insisted that the cockpit view on the GamePad is a notable improvement to the traditional gameplay. Despite hearing this PR bullet point consistently whenever this game was mentioned, I was left unimpressed with what I saw of it at E3 last year. I hoped that the final release would showcase the reasons why it would allow for more precise aiming, but it never became apparent. Having a cockpit view on the GamePad and a third-person camera on the TV seems not just unnecessary, but confusing at times. This is supposedly for situations in which you’re locking onto (and circling around) an enemy on the big screen, while still technically able to aim at other enemies in first-person on the GamePad. These situations almost never come up, and when they do, it feels distracting and disjointed to look up and down between the two screens.
Just about every opponent you face can be deadly, but the stronger-than-normal Yokai command fear. You learn respect the first time a one-eyed giant lifts you up and pounds you into the earth, or when a Tengu appears from the sky to lift you away. The pacing of these terrifying creatures and their appearances is amazingly well done – just when you think you’ve finally figured out how to tackle a certain type of monster, a new, more difficult one is introduced to the family. However, even the Yokai are overshadowed by many of the boss encounters. These clashes run the gamut from forgettable to inspired, with many featuring bizarre or terrifying opponents, from a wisecracking smoking frog to an epic final boss fight that delivers in grandiosity, spectacle, and pressure.
As for melee, Marcus has a nifty string attached to a weighted ball which he aggressively swings at foes or uses the cord to choke them. These are thrilling animations, but they leave you vulnerable in a shootout since they take a few seconds to play out, so melee is most useful when you’re out of sight. You can play through the entire game non-lethally with Marcus’ stun gun, but you see no repercussions for a lethal versus non-lethal approach, which makes this distinction nearly meaningless. I preferred the more practical lethal approach, but going the non-lethal route adds more of a challenge and makes more narrative sense for Marcus. 
By putting players in control of city-planning without annoying barriers or online connectivity requirements, Cities: Skylines has established a reputation for being the best modern city-builder when it originally released two years ago. Though the PC release relies on mouse and keyboard controls, the game has leapt to Xbox One with full gamepad support and a new streamlined menu system. The result is the premier city simulation game on consoles.
The Double Dragon franchise was instrumental in turning brawlers into a bustling genre during the arcade era. Jimmy and Billy Lee now return decades later (once again tasked with rescuing Marian), and their journey takes them down memory lane for franchise fans with tons of foes from previous entries and a juiced-up soundtrack that brings the old tunes out with a fresh twist. If you’re looking for a title drenched in nostalgia – right down to the retro graphics and mind-numbing platforming challenges – this is one you don’t want to miss. But recalling your memories of Double Dragons long past may be more enjoyable than this new experience.
Without the pure granular gratification of its tricks, Steep's feast resides in its many moments. Enjoying a beautiful vista, surviving a suicidal bombing run down the side of a mountain, or uncovering a new area and being rewarded for it – this is what keeps me coming back. One memorable moment was during a seemingly routine paragliding event following an NPC. I normally find these kinds of challenges relatively boring, but in this case I mastered riding the wind gusts up the side of the mountain through dangerous, craggy spires. Upon landing, I warmly reflected on the subtlety of an experience that not only contained tense gameplay and gorgeous scenery, but which elicited a quality of enjoying-the-moment that isn't easy to achieve.
This is the vision of the game I hope Hello Games leans into as they work to improve No Man's Sky. Yes, deeper systems, better draw distance, better frame rate, greater variety of, well, everything, all of this is important. Maybe that theoretical possibility of interaction between players should actually make its way into the game, too. But I don't want any of that to come at the expense of that magnificent solitude that No Man's Sky already does so well. That's why I remain here, wrestling with all the ways in which this game's universe is fundamentally broken.
Early reports indicate that setting the lighting to low seems to hold at least some of the instability at bay, but it’s especially frustrating because the game otherwise runs well for me on my Nvidia GTX 760 with High settings. I can go hours and hours with only the occasional hiccup, and then suddenly I'm looking at my desktop wallpaper and left to wonder about where DS3 will decide to put me when I load back in. That said, it doesn't seem like this is a fundamental problem with the game's engine, and hopefully we'll see a fix issued sooner than later.
But there are appealing aspects too. Scanning environments on a newly discovered planet doesn't get old, or at least it hasn't yet for me. Yes, you'll see the same assets recombined in various ways as you play, but even apart from the financial benefits--you earn additional money by uploading your discoveries to a galactic database--it's a wonderful sensation to know you're the first person to see this particular thing, whatever that thing happens to be. And even though engaging with the wildlife on any given planet rarely amounts to much--feeding the more docile creatures sometimes nets you additional resources they scout for you, or occasionally excrete for you--I still like doing it. I like befriending these Frankensteined animals, no matter how grievously repellant they might be. By no means will this grind work for every player; I often wondered not if, but when it would ever stop working for me. But for the subset of players who, like me, succumb to No Man's Sky's perpetual thrum of galactic busywork, it does the job.
A Roman-themed arena combat game that rams home the point that rogueliteish characters are entirely disposable, Domina [official site] is all about feeding meat to the grinder in the name of keeping your precarious bloodsports empire afloat. Even if you somehow keep one of your fragile gladiators alive for long, chances are they’ll be begging for release from their horrific slavery before long anyway. A game of numbers as much as it is a game of death, it might just have a point to make if it weren’t also rubbing its hands together with salacious glee., A mutant pixel art affair, like the Delphine games of yore and as re-popularised by Superbrothers: Sword &amp; Sworcery, the slightly twisted anonymity of its characters suits Domina well. Everyone has a name, everyone has a happiness meter, but no-one actually matters. Blood for the blood god., , Though there’s roguelike DNA in there – keep your characters alive and with gradually improving abilities both by not dying in combat and by meeting basic needs – it’s also very much on the AdVenture Capitalist/Cookie Cruncher, etc. endless numbers side of management games. Which rather fits the Roman empire theme – lives toyed with and destroyed in the name of a few rich bastards’ opulence and entertainment. , Though you can individually manage training and morale, really Domina is set up to have such things be auto-managed by purchasing training ground upgrades to do it for you. You, meanwhile, focus on upgrading gladiator gear (itself a matter of frantic clicking until you run out cash) and choosing which of them you send out to have an increasingly low chance of surviving arena combat vs AI gladiators and the occasional furious lion or two. I don’t like lions, it turns out. Nasty habit of killing my men instantly, it turns out. Don’t bring a knife to a lion fight, say I., You can, if you wish, control your gladiators directly for a spot of high-speed clicky-stabby with a side-order of basic dodging, though as a campaign wears on (presuming it doesn’t end in ignominy early on, which is often the case) this can become even more lethal than allowing the AI to handle them. , , What I really like is that there’s a choice – you can even specify a fighter’s training focus on their aptitude when under AI control, instead of, say, agility, strength, defence or weapon capability. The smart way to play is to create specialists, picking who best to send out against an enemy with a weakness in one discipline or another, but equally it can all be auto-managed if you’re feeling overwhelmed., Most of the time, you’re spending your winnings on buying new gear, picking team-wide new skills or building upgrades while Domina unstoppably ticks through in-game days until the next fight. Everyone needs to be kept fed and watered too, so running out of cash is potentially lethal – even you, as the gladiators’ silent, cash-strapped owner, can starve or thirst to death. , , Also in the mix is keeping a couple of opposing officials happy via a combination of wine-based bribery and occasional make-a-choice text pop-ups, in order that they might cover some of your costs or sell you new flesh for the endless sausage-making-machine. A fair few other elements too, like recruiting NPCs to auto-heal or selecting which ‘blessings’ to apply to your fighters, but really the meat of the game is training up guys then praying they don’t die, leaving you with a handful of rookies. It’s a bit like XCOM in that regard, but with more leather jockstraps., As the game escalates from one-on-one battles to e.g. teams of eight vs. eight and semi-optional boss fights against ultra-gladiators, near-total wipe-outs are eminently possible, and indeed occur with brutal speed. Between that and cash/food/water/morale, it’s one of those games you should expect to completely fail most times you play – and often you won’t see it coming., , This is the design. In fact, so determined is Domina that it’s a done-in-a-session affair that it currently lacks any kind of save feature, including the now-traditional ‘save and exit.’ Quit and you’ll lose all progress – because the idea is that you’ll never make more than an hour or two of progress anyway. This is about doing the same thing time and again to see how far you can get via a mix of chance and decision-making. It has Twitch interaction built-in – it’s one of those sorts of games. , I appreciate the intent, and admittedly it doesn’t take long to get back up to speed in a new campaign, but sadly it conflicts with the reality that none of us can guarantee a certain amount of time, and knowing that you’ll lose everything if you’re called away unexpectedly or your damn cat stands on your PC’s power button yet again rankles. The Binding of Isaac has save and quit, y’know (other than in daily runs)? So I’ll be surprised if it doesn’t end up being patched in here too., , The other fly in an otherwise enjoyable if rather transitory enjoyment is that Domina is swaddled in extremely sweary voiceover. It’s trying to be comic, but most of its gags don’t go further than ‘man says a naughty word.’ It’s clearly playing to the gallery, and there’s again a certain thematic appropriateness here given that gladiatorial events weren’t exactly renowned for their decorum, but it’s neither edgy or offensive – just repetitive and tiresome. , Fortunately, Domina as a game isn’t. It has quite a few moving parts, but each part is very simple. It really is oddly similar to one of those keep-clicking-the-numbers games, but pinned with a more meaningful structure and shallow but engagingly frantic combat. Throughout, I was conscious that I was playing something that was almost aggressively designed to be disposable, and for that reason I can’t say it feels close to my heart – but at the same time, I might just keep it hanging around my hard drive to fill idle half-hours now and again. 
For a while there, back in 2014, we were rather excited to see Four Sided Fantasy [official site]. Then things went quiet. And then, er, the game came out last August. Oops. So why now? Well, I was looking up Four Last Things, the bonkers (and a bit annoying, honestly) Renaissance painting adventure, and clicked the wrong button. Yeah. Welcome to RPS., Crikey, Four Sided Fantasy is rather good. It’s not too late to tell you., OK, look, I’ll be even more honest. I’m more motivated to post about this right now because of the twitching horror inside me at typing out the game’s name without the bloody hyphen it should have. Four-Sided. FOUR-SIDED. Oh my goodness., That aside, and believe me I’m going to be writing it correctly from now on, this is a really smart reality-warping puzzle platformer that merits our attention., Although that attention is best kept if you ignore its puke-inducing bullshit conceit. For some godforsaken reason this is about trying to reunite a boy and a girl who are trying “to find each other”, but separated by an inability to share the same portion of reality. Oh, if only these two blank-faced anonymous cartoons could be together, I could sleep at night again! All that matters now is their love, because the game’s description said it was so! Bleaurgh. Honestly, it’d have been so much better if this featured a cartoon bear and chicken alternating in the space. I care about bears and chickens getting to hang out., , The premise (yes, we got there!) is this: Your character runs about in the standard side-scrolling platform way, fixed to the centre of the screen as the world moves around them. But at any point you can freeze the screen, and move the character around it. And if that freezed screen has open exits both left and right, or up and down, you can go off one side of the screen and come back on the other., This leads to an immediate wealth of lovely puzzles. At their most basic, say you’re running along the open ground and then a giant pillar of rock blocks your path, freeze the screen, run to the far left, and appear on the far right the other side of the pillar. Of course, this is by far not the first game to use that mechanic, but it’s the first I can think of (yes, yes, the Spanish-only Mega CD game you know about did it too) where its your freezing the action that creates the borders. And this leads to much more elaborate challenges, where you’re leaping toward an abyss, but up enough that the dangerous area goes off the bottom of the screen, and instead you fall down through to the top of the screen where you can angle right to land on a moving platform. Maybe line the screen up just right so walking left and right has you fall down through gaps in what would otherwise be impassable floors of rock below you. Or even something as simple (but unintuitive) as freezing the screen above a long stretch of deadly static, but with rock blocking the top, and then just walking along the bottom of the screen!, The further you get, the more it asks you to think, and the more complicated the moves become as you bend time and space to your will. And at no point does it become meaningful or relevant that every time you pass a boundary and reappear, you change from boy to girl to boy to girl again. Honestly, it would have been fine if you were just one character the whole time. It’s silly. Stop it., , The art is pretty lovely, simple but effective, and I really like the design of the two characters. The game’s big imperfection, however, comes with the jumping. It’s not significantly bad, but it feels just slightly off, just not quite right as you drift. I think it’s something to do with the analogue controller sticks, the game over-sensitive and trying to walk instead of run at key moments. Playing both Hollow Knight and Shovel Knight this week too has made the issue more apparent, emphasising the difference between when it feels right, and when it feels wrong. Those two games handle the motion of jumping very differently, but each feels just right for its context. This one, it feels like you’re not quite getting the movement you ought. Not a game-breaker by a long stretch, but a little grumbly., The other really odd aspect is the scenery changing. Early on you run down long corridors of rock or grass to get to newer areas, but then after a while there’s a point where as you run right, the screen goes black for a bit, and then PING, you’re somewhere else with no explanation or transition. It feels incredibly half-finished in these moments, and it’s hard to believe it was ever the intention to have the game just suddenly and jarringly stop, then carry on in a different location like nothing happened., , But then it adds new surprises. Imagine a typical platforming scenario, a long narrow corridor with a blast of something-me-do hurtling down every few seconds. You’ve got to make your progress in the gaps, right? But what happens if you freeze the screen and those blasts keep on coming in? You end up with those going out of the left side of the screen coming back in the right, along with new ones, until you’re bombarded with the things. Not helpful, but what if you could figure out a way to have them pile up somewhere else by these means? Or what about when each of the two characters are affected by gravity differently, so going out of the screen and on again flips the direction in which you fall?, It all works really rather well, and is accompanied by a very pleasing ambient soundtrack, along with nature noises chirping and squawking over the Eno-esque keyboardy tones. And it gets rewardingly difficult, without feeling unfair, or relying on ninja reflexes. (Clearly I have them, but they’re left in their box here.), This is well worth a look, and a good scratch of the head.
BioWare gave itself an easy out with this game's story, after Mass Effect 3's controversial conclusion to the Reaper threat pretty much rewrote the rules of the series' familiar setting. That in itself is a missed opportunity; in a setting already rife with interspecies sociopolitical strife, exploring how the balance of power shifted in the Milky Way after the Reapers were out of the picture could have been fertile narrative ground. Instead, we've sailed a bunch of colony ships 600 years into the future and to the Andromeda galaxy, wiping the slate clean for the writers to lay down a whole new set of rules. But the game does very little of interest with this new freedom. In leaving behind a game world that revolves around ancient alien technology to reach this new environment of limitless possibilities we get... another galaxy that revolves around a different set of ancient alien technology, and for the most part that tech merely serves as a convenient space-magic plot driver rather than a narrative direction to be explored in its own right. You just happen to be the only character in all of Andromeda who can interface with this technology; be prepared to activate weird alien terminals to make plot things happen without any explanation, time and again.
Diamond Dynasty once again makes card-collecting fun, but not from an influx of new game modes that made it so appealing last year. Those modes all return (and are largely the same), but an addictive hook comes from adding new players to your team. I know this is what this mode has always been about, but this year’s game offers over 2,000 to collect, spanning over 80 years of MLB history.
After various spin-offs and re-releases, the buildup to Kingdom Hearts III has been nothing if not drawn out. Kingdom Hearts II launched more than a decade ago, and a whole new generation of gamers can play the early entries thanks to HD remasters on PS3 (and later this year on the PS4). Final Chapter Prologue should be the last new remaster before Kingdom Hearts III; it includes Dream Drop Distance (originally a 3DS exclusive) for the first time on the big screen. Additionally, an episode starring Aqua and a mini-movie, which shows how this crazy journey all began, are both new for this entry. As convoluted as the Kingdom Hearts storyline is, after playing through this collection, I have a clearer understanding of the narrative leading into Kingdom Hearts III. Even without the extra story context, Final Chapter Prologue is fun on its own, and Square Enix did a wonderful job making this a worthwhile collection and not just a port of Dream Drop Distance.
This year’s game excels both on and off the field. Both Road to the Show and Franchise mode received major facelifts to try and shake up the age-old foundation they are built on.
Jumping between bar chords, power chords, arpeggios, and muted arpeggios is fun, especially when the song breaks those progressions up with a solo. The guitar-solo mechanics borrow heavily from the mechanics of Rock Band 4's improvisational solo mechanics, so if you've played that mode, you know what to expect. However, players looking for a true challenge like Guitar Hero and mainline Rock Band games might be disappointed; instead of the satisfaction of completing a song, the main thrill of Rock Band VR comes with making songs sound good through your improvisation (trust me, you can make some classic songs sound like garbage since the guitar sounds mirror your play).
With more traditional RPG mechanics and a real progression system, Paper Mario: Color Splash could have been one of the best games in the series. Because of some unfathomably ill-conceived decisions during the development process, it’s one of the very worst.
Exploration is a large part of Yooka-Laylee. As soon as you enter a world, you wander around trying to find things to collect. I had a blast branching from one area to the next, and the excitement that comes from discovering a secret area is unrivaled by anything else in this game. While the exploration-based structure works to the game's advantage the vast majority of the time, its insistence on not including modern conventions like waypoints or maps can lead to long stretches of running around in circles trying to find the next mission to complete.
Following Breath of the Wild, Nintendo's nascent system is lacking in exclusives two months into its lifecycle. Mario Kart 8 was a big hit for Wii U when it released in 2014, and now the acclaimed title makes the leap to Switch. While remastered games are rarely the most anticipated releases on any system, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe includes myriad important improvements and adds portability to create the definitive version of an already great game.
There's a good variety to the included modes in Titanfall 2, even though the co-op-focused Frontier Defense mode or some other, similar cooperative experience didn't make the transition over from the previous game. It's got a smattering of objective-based modes and a handful that simply focus on being good at shooting down enemies. The catch is that most of these modes don't have any AI combatants in them. That might seem like a weird thing to miss, but having some fodder in the maps gives you something to do as you're running back to the conflict after a respawn. Considering the maps are large enough to contain a full set of on-foot pilots and titans at the same time, sometimes you find yourself running a little longer than you'd like just to see another player. So that lack of AI--the game's Attrition mode still has them in place--ends up making those maps occasionally feel empty and a bit lifeless.
Robo Recall gives players a degree of tactical flexibility not usually present in light-gun shooters. Yes, you can settle for shooting enemies if you’re boring. You can also warp to them, reach out and grab a handle middle of their chest, and bash them into the ground over and over again before you roll the corpse into another robot like a bowling ball. If you’re standing in front of an enemy shooting bullets or shells at you, you can bat the bullets back or pick them out of the air and drop them to the ground. You can also pick enemies up and use them as shields, or take the weapon from their hands and use it to blow them away.
This is the contradictory engine that drives most of Homefront: The Revolution, and it encapsulates the game’s failed attempt to treat bleak problems of an alternate history America with simple, mechanical solutions. Homefront is a game that's more interested in telling you how grim things are than it is in showing you what makes your circumstances so dire, and rarely finds way to include you in its key moments of storytelling.
The game board of ES:L is arranged into two lanes, the normal and the shadow. Everything happens normally on the standard lane, but units deployed to the shadow lane operate under the cloak of darkness for a turn, and can’t be attacked by enemy units. Lanes allow you to play units that are more fragile or need time to set up with some safety, and add an element of strategy to things instead of just dumping all your critters in one giant pool. 
The closest I ever came to actual death in No Man's Sky was on the planet @MOUNTENNUI. A mountainous planet with minimal wildlife, @MOUNTENNUI was a rock I almost bolted from moments after touching down. It was only because I noticed an unfamiliar object near my landing point that I stayed. Vortex Cubes. I'd never seen these on a planet before. As far as I knew, they only existed as rare, valuable items you could buy on the open trading market. Here they were, not in great quantities, but enough that it was worth my while to snag a few. The one thing I hadn't counted on was the sentinels.
The combat system is easily the highlight, working as a solid foundation for the rest of the diverse modes. It’s a 3D action/fighting hybrid that slashes its own unique path; the warriors have a variety of different weapons, including poison-tipped spears, battleaxes, and katana, but the fundamentals are the same regardless. Your hero can hold his or her weapon in three directional positions, for either attacking or defending. Switching positions is as simple as locking onto your opponent and moving the right analog stick. Add in feints, parries, block-breakers, and unique movesets, and you have a robust melee toolset.
The only way to share levels with friends is to do it locally or through Street Pass. Exchanging levels with the person standing next to you is easy and quick. Sharing this way does not require you to beat the levels, which means you can send your friend an impossible undertaking. Challenging your friends with difficult levels was a highlight on the Wii U version; knowing a level could be completed was an important factor in sharing levels, and to see that requirement axed is another head-scratching limitation. The lack of online sharing theoretically encourages local collaboration, but I don’t enjoy trading levels back and forth to make changes. This new system makes it feel like I am passing along an unfinished painting, rather than a masterpiece meant to be appreciated.
Too often, puzzle games draw players in with mechanics that are easy to wrap your head around, but by the time you reach the end, it overly complicates the formula you originally fell in love with. Within moments of loading into each puzzle in Snipperclips, I was able to understand what my ultimate objective was. Cutting your player character down to either match a particular shape or form a tool needed to achieve a solution is gratifying from the moment you hear the clipping sound, but it's this simplicity that makes Snipperclips an enjoyable puzzler from start to finish.
I never felt more alone than I did on the planet @UtilityLimb. At this stage of my journey, I'd never been to a harsher place. Impossibly massive cliffs jutted up all around, offering sheer drops into small pools of putridly hot water. Huge storms that almost completely killed visibility beyond a few feet in front of me rolled in regularly, kicking up purple dust clouds that made the environment look like an early Nintendo 64 game. The only life I ever found were a few out-of-place-looking cow creatures, and a small number of pulsating shrimp things that swam around those tiny pools of water. Of the precious few stations I found, all were empty of life. No one existed on this bizarre, horrible place.
If you have a PSVR, I’d highly recommend playing at least some of the game with it (ideally, the first couple of hours). After a few hours, I decided to take the headset off and play the traditional way. The game’s visuals look noticeably better on a television screen, and I did prefer to comfortably sit on a couch rather than have a bulky headset and headphones on. VR in this game is a highly effective gimmick, but the additional scare factor was beaten out by overall comfort in the end. I say “comfort” in regards to the headset itself, as I never felt sick to my stomach or dizzy while playing on the default settings, even during my initial three-hour extended session. I appreciated the variety of options for those that want to play in VR, including the ability to change the turning degree angle of the right analog stick (the only time I felt odd was when I tested the “smooth” turning option). If you don’t mind wearing a headset for an extended period of time, you should be able to tweak the VR settings to your liking.
In Thimbleweed Park [official site], few things are what they appear to be. The game, which reunites Ron Gilbert with his Maniac Mansion co-designer Gary Winnick, is a point and click comedy-mystery that looks like a relic from the past. Or, more accurately, like memories of the past; it has handsome lighting and a level of visual detail that actually fills in the blanks that memory often papers over., Attractive as it is, should such pixels please your eye, it’s the quality of the story and the puzzles that really count. On one of those fronts, Thimbleweed eventually finds a way to go above and beyond anything I expected from it, but the combination of broad jokes and mystery-thriller sometimes creates confusion and frustration in both the narrative and the puzzling along the road., , The first hour or two were equal parts a pleasant return to the comfort zone of point and click puzzling, and a sense that things were just a little too comfortable in Thimbleweed Park. The writing, in those early stages, has to do a lot of work, introducing lots of characters (five of them playable, eventually) and fleshing out the backstory of the town. The setting seemed muddled, with references to an all-powerful pillow factory magnate and ever-present vacuum tubes running everything from the crime-solving computers in the sheriff’s offices to the telephones and fire hydrants., , A town with a pillow factory as its most magnificent achievement, inspiring awe in the residents, falls dangerously close to precisely the kind of zany humour that makes me cringe. A pillow factory, it seems, is funny because pillows are funny and not the sort of thing that impresses anyone in the real world. And two of the first characters you meet, the sheriff and coroner, share a similar sprite and the same voice actor using a different comedy speech pattern for each. It’s oh so wacky., It’s easy to forget, as all of these daft characters and situations pile up, that Thimbleweed begins with a corpse. The sinister and mysterious aspects are quickly buried underneath a deluge of daft references and conversations that meander without doing very much to build the world, establish interesting characters or elaborate on the strong opening mystery. It seems to be a murder mystery in which nobody cares about the murder because they’re so intent on performing their comedy routines., , And then there is an actual comedy routine, delivered in flashback by Ransome the Clown. I’ve written about Ransome before and I’m pleased to report that he continues to be a horrible delight right up until Thimbleweed’s final moments, but it’s his first appearance in that flashback that stabilised the game for me. Partly, it’s because Ransome is an easy character to understand – a jerk who gets his comeuppance – but it’s mostly because the flashback is a self-contained setting that allows the story to find its focus., Because Thimbleweed quickly opens up, allowing any character to go to (almost) any location, the story isn’t told as efficiently as it could be were the structure more linear. To begin with you have just two characters to control, but they’re interchangeable, with one unifying motive and objective, and their own ulterior motives that remain hidden in the early stages. The three flashbacks, each of which introduces a new playable character, are useful anchors or punctuation, breaking the game into more manageable slices., , It’s odd to think of pacing as a problem in a point and click game, but more than anything else that’s what I struggled with in the opening hours. My interest was in solving a murder, but the game’s interest was in explaining exactly what Thimbleweed park is, from the pillow factory to the occult bookstore to the haunted hotel. It’s a complex place and not all of the individual parts and people gel together to give a sense of precisely why it is such a strange little ghost town., That all settles down though and even if the bigger questions are left dangling until the final chapters, the town does start to cohere. It’s an odd place but its oddities – even the pillow factory and those vacuum tubes – are more than throwaway jokes or convenient and welcome puzzling short-hand (the tubes become a shortcut for many tasks that require a device to be repaired, so you don’t need to worry about carrying all manner of tools around)., , There are throwaway jokes everywhere though and even the ones that got a laugh out of me sometimes felt like a distraction from the actual mystery portion of the game. Where the comedy and mystery elements are intertwined, they work fantastically well, and the humour doesn’t shy away from the story’s darker threads. Curses, death, loss, murder, families torn apart, anxiety, despair – individual lines and scenes are cheery and light-hearted, but the overall tone is rarely frivolous., But Gilbert and his team have other plates to spin: Kickstarter rewards in the form of answering machine messages (and a stacked phonebook of names and numbers corresponding to them) and library books, and more in-jokes and callbacks than comfortably fit within the framework of the story. When you’re searching for a clue to advance the case, all of those names, numbers and allusions become an extra layer of noise to navigate. , , Is a number mentioned in a journal actually important or is it a pop culture reference? Is a witty line about the idiosyncracies of point and click adventures actually a hint about the conventions and how to break them, or simply…a witty line? It can be hard to cut through the sheer volume of asides and one-liners to find the clues that actually matter. To be clear, this isn’t a problem throughout the entire game, but one of the lead characters is an adventure game designer and an important location contains a Comic Con style ThimbleCon; that character and setting occasionally turn the volume up to eleven, though Delores (the game designer) swiftly became my favouite person in Thimbleweed. But, still, I never want to hear another line about the shame of working in the games industry. In my chosen, that’s unlikely. , Almost as soon as all of the characters were in play and the whole of Thimbleweed County was open for exploration, I settled into the game’s groove. Pacing was no longer a problem because I almost always had two or three major puzzles to chip away at, meaning I could turn away from one and to another if I got stuck. Eventually, of course, you hit bottlenecks, having solved all but one puzzle that will advance the story, but despite all of the distractions mentioned above, the world does have a strange but consistent logic. There wasn’t a single solution that felt unjustified and the couple of times I resorted to trial and error, the way forward I eventually stumbled across always made sense in retrospect., , And when the characters are allowed to show their personalities and their past rather than acting as vessels for joke-delivery, they’re a fascinating bunch, with excellent voice acting. I particularly like Ray and Reyes, the agents. Ray rolls her eyes and treats Thimbleweed’s silliness with utter disdain – a much-needed voice of caustic reason – and Reyes is nervous and naive in a way that immediately made me suspicious. Everyone in Thimbleweed is an unreliable narrator and even though you’re controlling these people, you aren’t actually being them; their secrets remain their own, until they choose to reveal them., I could quibble (am am going to, clearly) about how the player characters don’t actually speak to one another, except on are scripted occasions, and can’t share information effectively. How Delores can give Reyes an item that helps to resolve his entire storyline but that he is oblivious to it. How I never want to ride an elevator again because the wait between floors feels eternal when you’re struggling to figure out a puzzle. How some of the actual rules of being a ghost don’t seem entirely consistent. I’ve made notes about so many things that made me frown, but they don’t add up to more than one big frown, and it’s countered by the much bigger grin I had for the back half of the game (it took me sixteen hours to finish and I only got properly stuck a couple of times)., , This has been a tricky review to write because some of the things that I love about Thimbleweed will almost certainly be off-putting to other people, and some parts that fell flat might well be your favourite moments. It’s a dense game, which means that if one joke fails to land, there’s almost certainly a follow-up that just might, hot on its heels. The bigger picture – which I’m unwilling to reveal because this begins as a whodunnit but eventually becomes a whatisit – ties everything together, making a tidy package of all the loose threads and awkward gags. , I thoroughly enjoyed most of the journey, despite a few unhappy detours, but the ending brought everything together in a way that didn’t just resolve the characters’ individual stories in a satisfying way, but found the emotional beat at the heart of their investigations. Not in every case, but certainly with three of the five. Though it rushes to its conclusion once the cat is out of the bag and I was a little let-down by the way smaller mysteries are absorbed into the Big Question raised in the final act (though hinted at previously), Thimbleweed’s final moments made me sad to say goodbye. Properly sad, with the suggestion of a little sniffle and everything. I suspect that ending will be divisive. Some people will make like Ray and roll their eyes., , By the end, all of my earlier frustrations didn’t seem to matter, though it’s important to remember that they absolutely did at times during the hours I was playing, and if I was disappointed at all it was because Thimbleweed Park doesn’t pack more emotional punches into its running time. As the individual stories play out, Ransome and Delores in particular show that Gilbert and his team care for their characters and their disappointments. This is more recognisably the work of writers who showed empathy for Guybrush and Elaine and their dreams than the people who brought us insult swordfighting. , At the beginning of the game, I’d hoped to solve a mystery and have a few laughs, but now I miss the company of this little crew. It’s a smart game though and a thoughtful one, even if it sometimes hides those qualities behind its clown makeup and a beaglepuss. The final puzzle sequence in particular shows just how long a game Terrible Toybox have been playing with the design. It’s a callback that works as more than a joke. At their worst, the many adventure game references feel almost apologetic, as if the game isn’t entirely confident in its own skin, but as it moves toward an ending, it embraces its own oddities and past in a way that left me entirely satisfied., , And for all of that that, I can forgive a few too-vague clues and the jokes that fell flat. It’s a beautiful game as well, the non-interactive foregrounds adding as much life to the world as the backgrounds. Even the old-school verb system, which I was wary of, doesn’t get in the way, with a right click always picking the most sensible options, and others existing for laughs or mild experimentation. Oh, and before I leave you, one piece of advice that might save you some time: as soon as one character has a map, the rest can collect one from an obvious place. Don’t do what I did and spend precious time sprint-clicking around the world.
Final Fantasy XV is unlike any RPG or open-world experience I’ve played before. It succeeds and struggles in finding its unique stance, but a few problematic designs don’t hold it back from being a hell of a journey. Just days after playing it, I find myself reflecting on it fondly. The thoughts of that damn car are recessed and blanketed by Noctis’ journey and some of the stunning moments that unfolded within it. I wasn’t a fan of Final Fantasy XIII’s sequels, but I hope Square returns with another XV or a similarly designed sequel to iron out the rough spots. There’s a solid foundation here that begs to be explored further.
Frank’s new exosuit is one of the game’s back-of-the-box selling points, and it’s a nice addition to his arsenal. These military suits let him hit harder and run faster, providing a brief-but-satisfying feeling of near-invincibility. Battery life is woefully short on these things, however, making them more of a temporary power-up than anything else. You can also upgrade them in silly ways, such as combining the suit with a frozen-drink dispenser, which allows you to hurl tornadoes that turn vast multitudes of zombies into undead popsicles. I get a kick out of these fleeting moments of raw power – getting a 3,000-hit combo in the exosuit is easily within reach – but finding them and a suitable upgrade opportunity is disappointingly rare. For a game that’s otherwise so generous with giving players opportunities to feel powerful, it felt oddly restrictive.
Gears of War 4 is set years after the events of 3, where Marcus Fenix sat down, took his do-rag off, and made you think that the Locust threat was more or less over. Gears 4 puts you in the boots of Marcus' son, JD Fenix. It seems that the situation has changed since we last checked in on this universe, as the younger Fenix and his colleague Del have abandoned their post, left the Gears, and taken up with some "outsiders." The COG may have successfully fought off the Locust, but in the years that followed they seem to have become quite the oppressors themselves, with robots known as DBs doing most of the heavy lifting as they attempt to rebuild the planet and repopulate the race. It's politically muddy in ways that the previous trilogy would occasional hint at, but now you're seeing the effects of that trilogy spun out, 25 years later. It's a good swap that makes the good guys the bad guys, as the game opens with your crew of outsiders raiding a COG construction site.
A Fragmentary Passage isn't perfect, but I'm glad Square Enix included completely new content, and dressing up Aqua by completing challenges is a fun bonus. My Aqua ended up wearing Minnie Mouse ears and having a red-and-white dress with ribbons to match. At the end of the episode, a lengthy scene (presumably from Kingdom Hearts III) allows you to finally see the characters embark on the next part of their journey, which is really what we've been waiting all this time for – to see that Kingdom Hearts' plot is moving forward instead of explaining past elements.
All of the now expected multiplayer modes are available, from traditional team deathmatch, hardpoint, and kill confirmed to more exotic offerings like infected, gun game, or defender, where players attempt to hold a ball in a lethal game of keepaway. Tired of getting shot in the back after you spawn? Try Frontline, which has fixed spawn locations. Whatever your playstyle, there’s a mode for you, and we’re almost at the point where I think there may be too many game modes if we keep going – Infinite Warfare might be at the perfect temperature in terms of options.
Once you identify a faction head of a region, disrupting the target’s operation becomes the primary objective. Each boss serves a different role in the organization, which affords Wildlands a diverse array of missions. During my 50-plus hours, I kidnapped a famous narco-corrido, destroyed submarines carrying cocaine to the United States and Europe, played cartel members against one another, and burned cocaine warehouses worth billions of dollars. The thematic diversity helps mask the fact that a large degree of missions essentially boil down to clearing or infiltrating bases of various sizes.
Nier: Automata also has problems with repetition, an issue that plagued its predecessor. The story is stretched over three campaigns that send you back to the same areas, and even the exact same story moments and encounters. How and why this happens is one of Nier: Automata’s surprises, so I won’t ruin it, but don’t be fooled when the credits roll. While this unfolding narrative and its hidden endings is an interesting experiment, it spreads the world too thin and doesn’t add enough new information when you revisit familiar situations. By the time I reached the true ending after nearly 40 hours (and most of the side quests), I felt like I only saw about 25 hours worth of game cut up and reconstituted in various ways.
The nuts and bolts of the latest Deus Ex game probably won't surprise you at this point. It has the things you expect from this kind of action/stealth role-playing hybrid, like skill trees that make you better at hiding from enemies, or abilities that let you speech-check your way through encounters that might otherwise turn violent. It also wraps its story in the familiar trappings of conspiracy, name-dropping "the Illuminati" like that's something you could just say with a straight face in 2016. Or 2029, as the case may be. Deus Ex: Mankind Divided is a sharp, exciting action-adventure game that feels good and tells a decent, if somewhat shallow tale.
I constantly wanted to see what Owlboy would show me next, but I lingered on a few side activities, too. Rings and coins are scattered all throughout the world, and collecting them lets you upgrade your weapons and wear silly hats once you cross once you've collected enough coins. You can also seek out a couple of more well-hidden secrets. Seeking out coins is worthwhile, since the weapon upgrades are more powerful, and one side quest offers a bit more backstory.
Remakes and rereleases of classic games have been so numerous in recent years that they’ve become a running joke. Whether it’s an HD shine on Twilight Princess, a remaster of a Resident Evil remake, or one of many trilogies and game collections, the current generation of consoles have no drought of material for those wanting a reason to play old games. Insomniac’s newest offering lies a bit outside of this trend, however. Ratchet & Clank (2016) offers far more than a simple remaster, but also isn’t slavish enough to its film tie-in to make fans of the series feel short-changed. This a fully featured reimagining of the 2002 original, with tweaks and additions that help tie it into the movie. Most importantly, it manages to do this all while feeling like a modern gameplay experience and retaining the chaotic fun the series has been known for all these years.
In addition to the core game, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe includes all of the downloadable content released for the Wii U version. This means you can tackle the Animal Crossing track as Link on the Master Cycle, or unlock Mercedes-Benz kart components for Dry Bowser and race on the simple-but-awesome Excitebike course. With 48 race tracks, 8 battle arenas, 5 difficulty settings (including mirror and the furious 200cc), and 42 characters to choose from, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is a behemoth package.
Plenty of open world games allow you to explore the entire map at your leisure, but Hyrule’s landscape and Link’s ability to climb makes for more rewarding exploration than I’ve ever seen in the genre. Most of the world isn’t accessible by easy-to-follow roads and waypoints. I spent many hours exploring off the beaten path, gliding across canyons, and scaling mountains. Some of these peaks seem insurmountable at first, but the summit can usually be reached if you’re smart about looking for places to rest and get a quick stamina recharge. When things go wrong, it often ends with Link ragdolling down the side of a rocky cliff. When they go right, there’s frequently a secret, a new vantage point for spotting shrines, or at least a beautiful view awaiting you.
Every week we warp Brendan into the gaseous caverns of early access to see if he can find precious games worth playing in the gloom. This time, the subterranean space colonisation of Oxygen Not Included [official site], Everything is covered in piss. When I branded my new space colony ‘Yellow Water Station’ I did so because I was prompted to come up with a suitable name for a settlement on the interstellar frontier. But all I could think of was how weird it is that astronauts drink their own recycled and purified urine. ‘Yellow Water Station’ was my puerile attempt at humour. I didn’t expect the new underground village I was building to accept its new moniker with such enthusiasm. Now everything is covered in piss, poisonous red gas is building up in the sleeping quarters, and there’s a dead body at the bottom of one of the aquifers.
As you level up between runs, you unlock equippable perks and permanent upgrades that take some of the edge off. Some simply boost your stats, but others offer larger gunshots, a healing item between levels, or a one-time revive. These perks make progress much easier, and should give anyone the tools they need to make it through the harrowing trials later on; without spoiling too much, I was able to outlast the final boss by simply standing there and shooting at him, since I invested heavily in health. That anti-climactic ending came after a long streak of successes I didn’t think I had in me, though, and I was still pumping my fist when the credits rolled.
Players select an avatar and then venture through a variety of game modes. You can change your avatar at any time, and it’s more than just a visual – your “random” card rewards will be influenced by your race. Card-game veterans will gravitate toward ladder-climbing through the ranks of each ranked season and the arena, ES:L’s form of limited/draft play. 
I’ll avoid open spoilers here (you can find those, and our thoughts on them, here, if you’re so minded), but suffice it to say that the final act of Resident Evil 7 Biohazard [official site] is not the equal of the claustrophobic cat and mouse chase/escape room mash-up that makes the rest of the game such a terrifying triumph. It is, then, a relief to find that the first two rounds of DLC, now available on PC after temporary PlayStation imprisonment, broadly mark a return to what made the Baker house such a successful reinvention of the Resi formula., , I’ll do this as set of capsule reviews, seeing as the DLC is divided into, essentially, mini-games. It’s also currently sold in two parts, unless you splurged on the season pass, known as Banned Footage Volume 1 and Volume 2. Annoyingly, both have exceptional elements and both have entirely disposable elements, so there’s no easy ‘buy this one over the other one’ answer here., The £8 pack comprises…, Nightmare, , You know how all the routine monster-shooting was the best bit of Resi 7? No, me either. Anyway, this is that, framed within a wave-based survival structure. I guess it’s for people who felt the pace of Resi 7 was too slow and not Resident Evilly enough. It’s the no-brainer inclusion, but exactly the sort of thing one would expect to find as a bonus mode in the main game, rather than as part of a paid add-on. It’s fine for what it is, sure, but it’s the exact opposite of what makes Resi 7 Resi 7., Ethan Must Die, , Something of a hybrid of the better elements of the Resi 7 main campaign and Nightmare above, this is a combat-focused remix of some sections of the Baker house, culminating in a boss fight. Consciously brutally hard, its entails gradually building up your arsenal and scavenging for resources that, unlike in the main game, are randomly-placed to some degree. It’s more interesting than Nightmare for sure, and likely to be of particular appeal to those who immediately replayed the campaign on Madhouse difficulty after completing it once, but I want to be surprised rather than face trial by fire, hence didn’t stick with this for long., Bedroom, , The clear highlight of the first bundle, this takes the Saw torture-puzzle ethos of the Lucas section of the campaign and pairs it with the bio-horror and intense menace of the Jack and Marguerite parts. , It’s a prequel to the main story, and shows us more of what happened to Clancy, the doomed cameraman seen in one of the found footage tapes (and the demo). He awakens in one of the bedrooms, chained to the bed and with a rictus-grinning Marguerite delivering some unspeakably foul broth for him to eat. Then she leaves, at which point you can attempt to make your escape by finding, combining and deciphering items within the room. However, certain of your efforts trigger her to return, activating a short window of time in which you must attempt to conceal all evidence of your incomplete breakout. , It’s a fabulous idea, playing with the memorisation challenges that have long been part and parcel of Resi games, but making them a logical part of the dark fantasy. Even though, by now, Marguerite should be a known quantity, the terror of her impending approach, followed by her suspicious checking of the room to see if anything is out of order, is right up there with Resi 7’s heaviest-hitting moments of terror. , Sadly it’s all too brief and only stands up to one playthrough, realistically. I’d definitely be up for a dedicated bundle of a half dozen vignettes like this, though. It utilises and clearly understands exactly what it has in Resi 7’s best element – the twisted Baker family – and keeps its hands clean of the excess that characterises Resi 7’s final act. , The £12 pack comprises…, Jack’s 55th Birthday, , I’m in two minds about this one. On the one hand, a comic-toned time attack affair feels vaguely in keeping with the kind of bonus modes of Resis yore, although once again it’s uncomfortable to find it in a paid add-on rather than unlocked at the end of the main game. On the other hand, this treats Resi 7’s most unsettling character, Jack Baker, as essentially farcical. Every time we see Jack in the light, his powers are weakened. Even within this DLC package, we have a mode in which Jack is supposed to be terrifying, so turning him into a hungry lump in a party hat here is a risky gambit., But it works, more or less. You, as Mia, have to dash around various parts of the Baker house, trying to find food for Jack before the timer expires. You’ll run into increasing numbers of Resi 7’s disposable monsters as you do (many in funny hats themselves), and there’s a vaguely Call of Duty: Zombies structure here, whereby there’s limited ammo and you gradually unlock more weapon types as you play. , It’s all very silly and entirely throwaway, but there is an appropriate edge of mania to it, as an otherwise stationary Jack slams his fists on the table and demands more, while you sprint about, terrified not of the monsters themselves, but of the delay they represent. Something of the sadism of the Bakers glints through the broad comedy. On the other hand, it misses a key trick by making the food you have to find entirely ordinary, rather than the tubs of unspeakable parts that we are treated to distressing close-ups of elsewhere in Resi 7., Daughters, , The centrepiece of Banned Footage 2 and, realistically, of the whole DLC boogaloo to date. Daughters is mini-campaign, set before the events of Resi 7 proper. You should not play it if you haven’t finished the main campaign, and to even talk about it, I need to do this:, SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS, The thrust of Daughters is witnessing the transformation of the Bakers from more-or-less happy family and into the monsters we know and fear. We see their kindness as they bring Eveline in from the storm, we show their rickety home before it’s coated in a patina of absolute filth, and we see Zoe’s terror as her beloved parents mutate into twisted horrors. This DLC very much capitalises on Resi 7’s strongest elements, which is to say the mingled terror and tragedy of the Baker parents. , However, it also shines unfortunate light on some of Resi 7’s weaker aspects, as well as revealing a game that’s beginning to strain against the limits of its simple systems. Playing as an as-yet infection-free Zoe, your goal is to escape the house while evading your newly-superpowered parents. Though this marks a welcome return to the paranoia and mostly combat-free early hours of Resi 7, it also means a less welcome to its rather arbitrary stealth systems, where success can depend on enemies inexplicably not seeing you when you’re three feet away but failure can result from a total inability to lean or peer and thus requiring sprints-of-faith. , Its multiple endings also depend on that other Resi 7 bugbear, only being allowed to pick up a handful of objects, and in this case the ‘true’ ending even hinges on finding and using those objects in a specific order. That’s fine in as much as it gives reasons to replay this 40-ish minute long tale a couple of times, but, coming off the back of the main campaign too, it makes Resi 7’s inner workings a little too obvious and a little too artificial now., Still, this is broadly an excellent extra slice of Resi 7, returning the Bakers to their deserved front-and-centre placement, making them menacing all over again – as well as their traditional jump-scare behaviour, they’re extra-monstrous because of how brutally they treat their own daughter. Given that this is the earliest moments of their transformation, we also get to see flashes of horror at their own behaviour, and it’s heartbreaking. Pointedly, Daughters fails to even mention the faintly tiresome Eveline backstory, keeping its focus tight on the Baker household. , Adam felt that Resi 7 itself did a fine job of conveying the tragedy and lost humanity of the Bakers, but I felt that was too little, too glibly. Daughters absolutely fixes that, but I can’t help but feel that it would have been far more valuable if included in the main campaign, as one of its flashback sequences, rather than a free-floating cast-off like this., 21, , After Marguerite in Bedroom and Jack in Birthday, sadistic son Lucas gets his turn in the sun. This is Blackjack by way of Saw, with you as long-suffering cameraman Clancy facing off against another Baker victim, Hoffman, in the playing cards version of Russian roulette. Whoever loses a round loses a finger, with further tortures introduced in later stages. It’s simple but effective, turning the inherent dilemma of whether to stick or draw as you try to stay under the magic 21 into something deeply traumatic. However, it’s diminishing returns following the gruesomeness of the finger-slicing initial stages, and there’s far too much sub-Joker prattle from Lucas, who remains the least compelling of the Baker clan. I think he wears his malevolence on his sleeve to his own detriment, whereas the fewer words and more opaque intent of his parents keep them deeply unsettling to the last. Still, this does a solid job of making a card game feel like a real part of the Resi 7 theme, and I enjoyed/was distressed by it far more than I’d expected., So, is all this worth twenty quid? I wouldn’t say so. You could blow through it all in three hours, and it’s unlikely that you’d play most of it ever again. The only elements of it that I’d say you even need to see are Bedroom and Daughters, but even those are one-shot affairs., However, given that the 25 quid season pass contains this and some as-yet unspecified further story-based DLC, it’s probably going to turn out to be better bang for your antique coin. What, in the main, all this has achieved is to restore the Bakers to a position of wildly menacing prominence, something that the closing hours of Resi 7 had unfortunately undermined, and for that I’m grateful.
The big challenge for the Gravity Rush series has been fitting structured objectives into all the falling and wondrous locales. Gravity Rush 2 gives you plenty to do, but many of the story and side missions make the experience feel dated. Escort, eavesdropping, and stealth missions abound, and they often have you sauntering around on-foot instead of flying high, which feels like a waste of your abilities. You also have a number of missions where you need to find a small object or person within a large area by using a photo as reference, as well as missions where you have to talk to people to have them point you in the right direction, which feel arbitrary and frustrating.
Wildlands is clearly designed for cooperative play, but you can also dismantle the cartel solo. Given the limitations of your control of A.I. companions, you can’t split your team up to employ more complicated strategies, but if you upgrade the sync shot ability, they serve as a great tool for thinning the enemy herd before you go in guns blazing. They stay out of trouble for the most part, and come to your rescue if you take one too many bullets.
The campaign, while relatively slight by comparison, is surprisingly engaging and helpful. It changes things up from level to level, working in the satisfying wall runs and platforming where appropriate to create sections that play more like little jumping challenges than your standard first-person shooter maps. The story is simple and, overall, parts of the game are a little disjointed, but it manages to pull together some decent characters, good voiceover performances, and fun little boss fights that actually help you get more comfortable with piloting a titan. The campaign also goes places, packing in some moments that manage to seem ridiculous as a part of this larger story while also feeling really great from a gameplay perspective. When the game does finally drop you into a large scenario full of titans on both sides of the conflict, it takes on the vibe of a pretty good action movie. It does a good job of making you seem smart when you're finding collectibles and tough when you're crushing your opposition. It's not super long, but it also doesn't dwell on any one type of gameplay for too long, either. It strikes a better balance than you might expect from a first-person shooter campaign, even if it sometimes comes across more like a bunch of disparate parts that were strung together with a story about a man and his giant robot suit hung around the edges.
While a revenge tale isn't new ground for storytelling, it still works for building up to key moments and making them relatable. Berseria is at its best when it shows the reasoning behind your allies' actions and developing them in interesting ways. For instance, watching one character who didn't have free will slowly turn into his own person is a highlight. You have a lot scenes and dialogue to shift through, and it's a slow burn, but it's worth it for how it all comes together. I wasn't even sure how I felt about the cast for the first 10 hours of the game, but the payoff is in how they grow and change.
Full Throttle shines because of its interesting cast of characters and well-paced story. Though a full playthrough will only take you four to five hours, the characters are given plenty of time to shine, including our laconic hero Ben, the kind-but-determined Maureen, and the villainous Ripburger (voiced wonderfully by Mark Hamill). The plot doesn’t veer into unexpected territory outside of some sequences near the tail end, but the characters are so endearing that it doesn’t matter. I enjoyed revisiting Ben and Maureen’s “will they or won’t they?” relationship and Ripburger’s bumbling henchman so much it didn’t matter how conventional the story of Ben’s quest for revenge was. The line-by-line writing is strong enough to make everyone compelling from beginning to end, even if they’re largely archetypical.
Setting aside the quality of the game, ReCore at least serves as an encouraging start for Microsoft's "Play Anywhere" initiative that will get you access to both Xbox One and Windows 10 versions of all first-party games from now on. In contrast to the much-maligned Games for Windows Live, it was a cinch to download ReCore and launch it from the Start menu, no extra login or overlay nonsense required. The game ran beautifully on PC, detected my Xbox One controller, unlocked the same achievements (although I never got any notifications for them), automatically switched to headphones when I plugged them into the controller's headphone jack; it pretty much delivered the seamless convenience of a console once I was in-game. The game's incredibly long loading times and shoddy frame rate on Xbox One make the PC version your best bet if you have a decent system, actually. It's too bad Microsoft couldn't manage to launch this effort with a more complete game than ReCore, although this positive first experience bodes exceedingly well for Forza Horizon 3 and Gears of War 4 in a few weeks.
What the Nintendo Wii lacked in horsepower, it made up for with a secret weapon: Wii Sports, a collection of simple mini-games that were so fun they had players around the globe chucking Wii remotes through their televisions. Wii Sports didn't just sell the potential of motion controls; it became synonymous with the Wii itself and fueled the system's stellar sales. 1-2-Switch is the Bizarro World incarnation of Wii Sports – a bush-league collection of gimmicks that fails spectacularly at selling the new capabilities of Nintendo's hybrid console. You may still throw your Switch controller at your TV, but for entirely different reasons.
Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Wildlands is probably only worth caring about if you're willing to play through the game with three friends, with voice chat enabled. You should know that up front. You can, of course, enter into public matchmaking. In fact, the game constantly encourages you to do so. But in my experience, playing with strangers, without voice chat, is probably the worst way to play Ubi's new cocaine mountain simulator. Single-player's also an option, and can be fun for a time, but the three AI-controlled squadmates they give you are intensely overpowered and a little boring to use. Leaning into the multiplayer aspect is probably the only way players will feel like they're getting their money's worth here.
It turns out The Show has nothing to hide. The new diversions – as enjoyable and varied as they are – pale in comparison to the action on the field. The Show has always strived for realism, and this year’s game adds even more nuance and unpredictability to the mix. Most notably, the robotic instincts of players are reduced, and outcomes of swings aren’t determined mostly by dice rolls.
I enjoyed my time with the first Halo Wars, so I’m glad that Microsoft took a chance with a sequel. Unfortunately, aside from Blitz, I don’t feel like Creative Assembly pushed the envelope. Simplified base building, smaller maps, and outdated level design keep Halo Wars 2 for achieving great heights. However, if you loved the first Halo Wars, this entry delivers more of the same.
In classic Resident Evil fashion, the house's architecture doesn’t make a lick of sense. The player is forced to hunt down keys, find animal-shaped objects to insert into mechanical devices, and scour the environment high and low to find healing items and ammo. You even find yourself thinking long and hard about inventory management every step of the way, questioning when to bring extra firepower, healing items, or that damn crank that somehow makes it into every Resident Evil game. Again, this sounds tedious, but it isn’t. It just makes you nervous about your odds and readiness for the next step of the game.
That’s the key difference between Rise & Shine and other games that revel in player death like Dark Souls or Ninja Gaiden. In those titles, you learn something from each death, and apply that knowledge to improve your next attempt. That happens here to a minor extent, but the element of chance plays a heavier role. You can only learn so much about the enemy configurations before you just need them to not converge in a particular way, especially in the final sections. Without escalating depth or twists on the gameplay, I never felt skilled when I won a hard battle. I only felt lucky.
This narrative-driven adventure draws players in by allowing them to explore the town of Possum Springs and reconnect with Mae’s past. Upon her return, she begins to notice ominous happenings that tie into the ghostly folklore of the town, and soon her and a group of friends set out to find the truth. This tale unfolds gradually as players establish a daily in-game routine – interacting with friends, venturing into town, causing trouble – but Night in the Woods rewards your patience as it gradually brings the threads together.
While the combat and enemies are the omnipresent highlights of the game, the same cannot be said for the environments. Despite a few great locales, the overall scenery looks too much the same, with area recycling and repurposing. The environments also represent a real hazard to the player almost all the time. With pits of poison, trap doors, spike pits, rolling boulders, and roof spiders waiting to pounce, death waits around every corner – and dying simply because you couldn’t see it coming is frustrating. While you begin to check around every corner for the inevitable ambush and groan because every single room has a ranged bomb-thrower or cannon-sniper, some of the labyrinthine castles and dungeons are overly sadistic in their construction, as if a cackling developer is quietly watching and snickering as bats fly out of a cave, throwing you off a cliff.
At its fearful root, there’s something hopeful about “if only.” It suggests improvement is possible. And so, I find myself wanting to say my own versions of the phrase. There’s that one striking image in Homefront: The Korean airship, its curved back and sharp nose, a shark skimming a scorched city skyline, a thing of mobile death. And it’s so hard not to say: If only Homefront could do justice to that image. But ‘doing justice’ requires more than one great effort, one great image.
I changed my tune on one of my favorite areas by the end of it. The haunted hotel isn’t combat-heavy, and focuses more on puzzle solving. I enjoyed trying to hunt down a collection of Toad ghosts so that they could organize a tea party. This area has several clever puzzles, and the reduced focus on combat was really helping me spend time with the things I liked about the game. When I was down to the last Toad that I had to collect, a grandfather clock rang and I was met with a game over screen. It had failed to adequately explain to me that there was a time limit for this area, and I was forced to start over from the beginning.
My team ended up having Reggie Jackson, Jeff Bagwell, and Javier Báez in the lineup. If that doesn’t scream “awesome” to baseball fans, few things will. Again, cards aren’t delivered fast enough, and that dark cloud of “pay-to-win” hangs over the collecting. Thankfully, you still don’t need to spend a dime to excel at Conquest mode, Diamond Dynasty’s most enjoyable avenue of play.
If you know Drawn To Death as "that notebook game," then congratulations: You've identified the one thing that truly makes the four-player online arena shooter stand out. While the student-doodle aesthetic is certainly novel, it takes its toll on the gameplay. At best, the on-screen action is muddled by sparsely detailed visuals and ugly HUD. At worst, it's a literal eyesore that leaves you with a headache. Nevertheless, Drawn To Death doubles down on the angsty teen concept with buckets of immature gags and insults, and from there it's a race to see what makes you stop playing first.
A few days before Christmas, I was involved in a car accident. No-one was seriously hurt, but I spent 90 minutes stood alone on a central reservation, shaking from both cold and shock, watching car after car after car nearly collide with my own wrecked and dangerously stranded vehicle, waiting for police who never came. I called twice. Both times I was told they’d be right there. They did not show (FYI roadside recovery did eventually, an hour after their ETA). I was as furious as I was terrified., 15 minutes with 911 Operator [official site] was all it took to entirely sympathise with why they didn’t send a car out. , The rule here is “if nobody’s dying, there’s no hurry”. Squad cars, ambulances and fire engines – the holy rescue trinity in this emergency services strategy game – are forever at a premium. Dispatch one to help resolve a situation that is, at the time of a call, bloodless and there’s every chance you’ll find you can’t send anyone to help an even more serious situation. Or it’s simply that all your cars are on other, non-lethal calls, so whichever unforunate just dialled up simply has to wait. , , Maybe all the police in Dartford were in a stand-off with armed criminals when I called. Maybe there was a particularly high number of disputes about trees growing into neighbour’s yards. Maybe my story just didn’t meet the operators’ criteria for calamity. I mean, no-one did get hurt in the end. They made their judgement calls. Perhaps they were right. , But they could have been wrong, as I have been several times in 911 Operator. I told someone who asked for a pizza to stop wasting my time, failing to twig that they were pretending to the other, violent person in the room with them that this was the purpose of their call. They ended up in hospital. The next day, I was slightly more inquisitive about but ultimately again dismissive of a woman’s complaint about how loud her neighbour’s TV was, and only later did I find out it was because the man had died in his own living room. , , Judgement calls. 911 Operator is all about judgement calls. It’s a quiet revelation about scenarios I imagine most of us have suspected but never fully thought about. The other revelation is that initial panic and guilt about these kinds of situations soon gives way to cold utilitarianism. My thoughts shifted away from “I have to help this person” or “what if there’s more to this than meets the eye?” and into “well, nothing is obviously wrong, so I just can’t justify the units,” and increasingly I felt no remorse if an initially shrug-worthy situation had awful consequences. , If I’d have sent someone out there speculatively, I wouldn’t have been able to stop the sexual assault on the other side of town. I wouldn’t have been able to put out that fire in a parking garage. , 911 Operator succeeds more as thought experiment about this constant dilemma for emergency service workers than it does a game. As a game, it’s the same looped five minute experience, with varying degrees of pressure to it. You sit in front of a map of the city you’re playing in, choosing which emergencies to assign which vehicles to, interspersed with phone calls in which you need to elicit appropriate information – severity, location, possible escalations, if it’s a total idiot – in order to make your judgement call. , Some situations require multiple vehicles, some situations escalate even after you’ve arrived – your police need backup because someone starts shooting, or someone’s injured because you couldn’t get to them in less than a heartbeat – and some situations have to be abandoned because something more terrible has occurred elsewhere. , , Mostly, though, you’re just right-clicking to send a police car, ambulance or fire engine to a point on the map, and hoping nothing else goes wrong while you wait for them to get there. It’s compelling in small doses, but only a few hours in I’d taken its point to heart and struggled to see what else I might take from it. It’s definitely effective at creating tension, which I admire, but that tension grows increasingly one-note., There’s a meta-game that entails efficient, well-judged decisions gradually earning enough money to purchase more and better vehicles and ancillary equipment. Perhaps there’s commentary here about ruthless government/state restrictions on police budgets, but in a game context it came across like artificial gating. This’d be easy if I had a fleet of helicopters, but to get that I have to grind. , , The other big selling point here is that, as well as playing in a campaign mode that darts between various US cities, you can freeplay in any city from anywhere in the world, and a fair few small towns too. Unfortunately you’re stuck with US voices, equipment and terminology wherever you plump for – and indeed crimes. I can assure you that the only shootings in Pershore, Worcestershire involve poor wildfowl. , Localisation seems like the most obvious and necessary addition 911 needs to add in, if its current Steam sales hot streak lasts long enough. The other is that, though it’s briefly pleasing to see the more or less recognisable monochrome outline of my home city, you can’t zoom in to see street names or photographic imagery, so it might as well be anywhere. , The ‘what about… [pissant small town you grew up in]’ is a one-off delight that lasts only moments, but I can definitely see how this thing could evolve. That said, some of the crimes it features are horrific, and as such becoming too playful might become deeply inappropriate., , It’s a couple of evening’s worth of exploring a concept and buying a few upgrades for under a tenner. I don’t not recommend it on that basis – the single greatest thing about PC gaming is that it’s a medium which will explore every niche, and I was glad for a brief nose at this one. It is a bit crashy in its current form through, and that paired with the feeling that it needs a little more meat on its bones makes me more inclined to suggest waiting a month or two.
Captain Flinthook is a plucky space pirate who uses a grappling hook to board ships and search for treasure – as well as something more personal. Grappling points litter most rooms, the floors of which are often hazardous. Propelling and shooting through a room without touching the ground is usually difficult due to the number of spiked balls, lasers, and enemies you encounter, but the feeling of threading the needle and blasting apart every enemy in sight without a scratch never gets old.
Metafictional satire is one of Thimbleweed Park’s stronger points, but Terrible Toybox overuses clever jabs pointing out genre tropes over the course of the game. This muddles up the main storyline later on and creates plot holes, warping other aspects of the narrative to feel meaningless. At its best, Thimbleweed shakes things up in creative ways, building on its classic foundation and veering off in surprising directions; it asks you to leave the game to search elsewhere in order to solve a puzzle, and prompts you to save your progress before pushing a button that results in a game over. The latter is a brilliant, satirical take on dead-ends in adventure games, which Thimbleweed Park adamantly avoids.
Dishonored 2 successfully builds on the solid stealth-combat foundation of the original while introducing enough fun new gameplay concepts to feel fresh. Whether you prefer sticking to the shadows or gutting every co-conspirator in the land, the game offers a rewarding experience with attractive upgrade paths.  The narrative doesn’t match the high bar of the gameplay and world building, but Arkane Studios nonetheless delivers a must-play revenge tale among the best in its class.
Half-Genie Hero’s story is straightforward, with Shantae having to prevent bad things from happening, but the dialogue and characters make every conversation worth listening to. I was eager to talk to everyone and laughed often at characters poking fun at their own role in the narrative. This is the first Shantae game I have played, and I already feel a kinship to these previously established characters thanks to their wit.
The multiplayer feels rough because your character isn't resilient at all, so having three way-too-murderous AI companions with you almost feels like cheating. Multiplayer takes those companions away from you and replaces them with human players. Though the game gives you some ways to direct players to the same objective, like fast travel and map marking, the in-game communication tools aren't especially effective. Jumping into random games felt like four players off doing their own things at times, though without the benefit of having your AI crew along as backup. Bring together an agreeable bunch of players that you might like to communicate with, and the game ends up being more enjoyable... though some of that is almost certainly due to the idea that playing anything with friends leads to a better time. The game itself still feels a little flat, but since you're going to be shooting enemies and shooting the shit with your friends, you'll probably just skip the boring cutscenes and get on with it. Rolling around the map, plowing through missions together is actually a pretty decent time. The stakes feel a little higher, since you can't fall back on your invincible crew of murderers whenever things go wrong. And unlike your AI friends, your real-life friends can mess up and break stealth. The game feels little short on weird, open-world hijinks, but if you like taking over Far Cry-like outposts with a team of friends... well, that's pretty much this entire game.
That incredulity has built steadily in parallel to a ludicrous amount of hype in the years since. For every person pinning their dreams of "endless gameplay" in "the last game they'll ever play," there was another demanding to know "what you do" in the game, and casting doubts as to whether Hello Games could ever pull off what it was purporting to do. Normally as a critic I wouldn't care to mention the hype cycle any big game inevitably goes through, but that cycle is inextricably linked to No Man's Sky. So much of what has been wished upon it has informed the discourse around it. Though Hello Games' own messaging has been at best, muddled, and at worst, ultimately misleading--especially around the possibility of players finding each other in this huge universe--that messaging has also been largely drowned out by people projecting their own hopes and fears onto the game.
In trying to make The Devil’s Daughter a bigger game, Frogwares upped the amount of action, a costly move that, while making for more dynamic story moments, forces the player to endure half-baked minigames and overly long action sequences. In one moment, Holmes must outrun a hunter for what seems like an eternity, ducking behind boulders, trees, and even using his detective vision to uncover a safe rock path through a swamp. This sequence is silly, void of fun, and derails an otherwise awesome case. The same frustrations rise in a stealth sequence that is cool in concept, but couldn’t be much more frustrating in execution. Frogwares tries to add action wherever it could, and it just doesn’t pay off. The worst example is an intense moment where Watson is trying to revive a man through CPR that doubles as a rhythm minigame similar to Dance Dance Revolution. My connection to the world was lost in that instant, and I just sat back and laughed until the goofy sequence concluded.
Halo Wars 2 [official site] is undeniably a console RTS – a rare, exotic bird that looks a bit weird and could only have evolved on an island split off from the rest of the world. Removing it from its natural habitat and introducing it to the PC ecosystem, where its evolutionary niche isn’t quite so niche, might seem a little cruel and ill-conceived. But while it’s certainly not a perfect fit, it’s striking and, more often than not, quite a lot of fun. Here’s wot I think., , It’s been a long time since Halo Wars first graced the Xbox 360, but it’s been longer still for the game’s protagonists, the stalwart crew of the Spirit of Fire. They’ve been asleep for decades, only to return to a galaxy that’s changed. A post-Halo 5 galaxy. As Ron Perlman likes to remind us, however, some things never change; whatever else has happened while the crew have been sleeping, the Halo Universe still loves a good war. And so it is that the long lost Spartans and Marines find themselves embroiled in yet another conflict, even before they’ve wiped the sleep out of their eyes., , Remember the Brutes? The big gorilla-like aliens who served the Covenant? Well, they’ve rebelled, sent the Covenant packing, and their leader Atriox has claimed the Halo-building Ark as his new home. One ship stands in the way of his plans, and that’s enough to kick the plot into gear, even if I’ve either forgotten what those plans were or they were never clearly expressed in the first place. , Halo Wars 2 spins a yarn that’s pretty typical of the main series – some high concept ideas made a little rote by a very simple narrative. For all the weird super weapons, nature reserves floating in the heavens and super-smart AIs, the campaign mostly just focuses on humans fighting evil aliens. Again. And then it ends awkwardly and abruptly to set up a sequel. , This three act war takes more than a few ideas from its FPS counterpart, with its exceptional Blur-created cutscenes – stunning works of CG art – and story-driven missions. Each of these 12 battles feels distinct, too. Not to the extent of, say, StarCraft 2, but there’s enough of a mix so that the campaign doesn’t outstay its welcome. Most missions take between 20-30 minutes to complete, so it’s a brief campaign, but it’s blessed with solid pacing and a good mix of objectives and scenarios., , It’s also surprisingly welcoming to Halo newcomers. It really doesn’t matter if you haven’t been paying much attention to what has become a massive and rich universe, because the crew of the Spirit of Fire have been out of the loop for years. Between the crew itself getting up to speed and the unlockable snippets of lore, it’s easy to get a grip on what the hell an Ark is and why everyone’s so obsessed with the titular Halos. , Campaign highlights include fighting and even getting to control the ridiculously huge Scarab unit – one of two super units in the game – and giving orders to not one but three badass Spartans. The campaign is filled to the brim with thrilling, explosive moments, which almost makes up for some stinkers like holding an area for 30 minutes, which Creative Assembly seem to think is such a fun mission objective that they use it twice., Let’s get back to the Spartans. Even though they appear as teeny, tiny warriors here, they are every bit as impressive as the likes of Master Chief. Every unit, from the vehicle-pounding Cyclops to the speedy and iconic Warthog, gets a special ability on top of its primary fire mode. The Warthog, for instance, revs up and slams into enemies with satisfying kinetic force. The Spartans are special, however. They get two equally fancy powers., , The first Spartan ability allows them to leap into the air and crush units when they nail their landing. This also lets them quickly jump off cliffs, surprising their foes below. Target a vehicle with that leap, though, and the ability changes. Instead of smashing into the vehicle, they hijack it. Every vehicle apart from the aforementioned super units is vulnerable to their superior hacking skills, allowing them to flit around the battlefield inside everything from the spry Wraiths to huge mechs bristling with rocket launchers. They feel every bit like the super soldiers the FPS makes them out to be. , While the unit selection is strong and their abilities often flashy, Halo Wars 2 never really seems to care how you use them. There are counter units, support units, myriad upgrades, but fights mostly just come down to who has the biggest blob of scrappers. I mean, you can try to play tactically, and you’ll probably need to – at least a little bit – when facing human opponents, but even then it’s more about army composition rather than being the smarter commander. , Controlling the Spartans, and every other aspect of Halo Wars 2’s vibrant and colourful battles, can feel a little off at times. Even when using a mouse and keyboard, it’s clear that concessions have been made for controllers. Units can be ordered to move, attack and use their special ability, but there’s little of the extra layer of control you might expect from a PC RTS. Your units constantly need to be micromanaged, there’s no patrol or guard options, and they’re cursed with poor pathfinding. The AI isn’t a serious threat, mind, and replacing units is a doddle, so if you do lose track of them, it’s not the end of the world., , These limitations aren’t all bad, however. Being able to relax on the sofa while playing an RTS using a controller is an enjoyable novelty, for one, but even if you’re playing Halo Wars 2 like a traditional RTS, the restrictions sometimes create interesting strategic wrinkles. , Base building definitely falls into this category. Instead of being able to place structures and defences wherever you please, maps are littered with predetermined base locations for HQs and mini-bases. Once you construct one, extra nodes appear around them, and that’s where you’ll plonk down your resource harvesting buildings, unit production facilities and your turrets. It seems horribly restrictive at first, but I’m now pretty sold on the idea. , If you need more energy or supplies – the game’s two resources, which are only generated by buildings because there are no resource nodes – you can’t just build a new generator or depot whenever or wherever you want. If you’ve already got one of each, chances are that you’ll need to destroy a building to make room for an extra one. Or you’ll need to explore, hopefully finding a node where you can set up a smaller base. This forces commanders to plan ahead and be willing to make the occasional sacrifice while also making build orders more reactive. It also encourages aggression and boldness. When you run out of space, you’re probably going to need to steal it from your opponent, destroying one of their bases and then building on its ashes., , Maps tend to be compact areas, full of winding paths that end in open battlefields. Units don’t move swiftly, especially in groups where their speed always matches the most sluggish unit, but battles are frenetic affairs where victories happen quickly. Despite their pace, there are plenty of opportunities for shifts in dominance and nasty surprises, largely thanks to powerful leader abilities. These nifty skills can be used to heal groups of units, drop down turrets or extra squads like ODST troops, or carpet bomb an entire area. Smart use of these game-changers can decide the outcome of a fight, but they have long cooldowns, so you’ve got to pick your moments., While Halo Wars 2 has its fair share of multiplayer modes, often influenced by the FPS games, the standout is undoubtedly Blitz. It subtracts buildings and unit construction for pacy firefights over a trio of capture points, with troops and abilities being played via cards. It’s a deck-building game, then, with each faction and commander getting unique cards, as well as a few neutral ones. You need to fight over energy pods that fall from the heavens before spending that energy on new units and powers, so it’s not just a race to get to the capture points, but also battle over fleeting resources. , In the other modes, there’s little beyond aesthetics to make armies feel distinct, but in Blitz there are enough unique cards to make some pretty diverse loadouts. And of course there’s the randomisation factor, as you’re never quite know what your hand is going to be. There’s usually a decent mix of powers and units, though, and I’ve never been in a position where I didn’t have anything worth playing. It helps that you can burn a card – for a cost – and immediately get a replacement. Cards costs are also generally low enough that you can field a beefy force with powerful units after only a short time, letting you get right into the thick of things and enjoy the type of scraps that you’d have to wait much longer for elsewhere., , Blitz is also the one place in Halo Wars where it feels like you’re being rewarded for being a clever, sneaky bastard. Because I’d played through the whole campaign before jumping into Blitz, I’d gotten used to just stomping around maps with one giant army, but that doesn’t really work here. It’s also not a good idea to spread your forces out; you’ve got to stay mobile. , Recently, I’ve been saving up my energy and leaving a single, expendable unit on the far side of a point. When the enemy storms it, I drop some mines – if I have them – and then summon what is essentially a brand new army. Maintaining line of sight of the capture points turns out to be even more important than keeping them defended., Halo Wars 2 is simultaneously conservative and inventive. It’s definitely trying to evoke traditional RTS games – which is not entirely a bad thing given the recent dearth of them – especially when it comes to the campaign, but elements like base construction and Blitz mode make it stand out enough that it doesn’t feel like you’re just going through the motions for the hundredth time. A clumsy UI and weird, sometimes fixed, keybindings and controls reveal its console heritage, but there are a surprising number of benefits to that side of the design. Some of the places where the formula has been redesigned in order to appeal to the Xbox One crowd, and to fit a controller, are the points where Halo Wars 2 finds an identity of its own.
Co-op mode, a destination for many in the Wii U version, is gone for 3DS, but I didn’t miss it. On Wii U, Woolly World functioned better as a single-player game. The Yoshis are large character models, and placing more than one on the screen could sometimes get claustrophobic.
That violence isn't inappropriate given the traditions of both the Mafia series and the open-world action genre in general. You know going into a game like this that by the end of it, you're going to leave a great deal of carnage in your wake. That the action is, by and large, satisfying, somewhat salves the feeling of repetition that sets in long before the game concludes. When I say that the game revolves around gunfights, I mean that in the near absolute. There's very little variety to Mafia III's mission designs. Occasional boostings of cars or destructions of properties only barely break up the hours upon hours of shootouts with extremely gullible guys sporting bomber jackets and/or giant sideburns. In a game with a less entertaining combat system, this would be ruinous. In Mafia III, I had a good enough time kicking doors down and shotgunning dudes through windows that I was mostly OK with it.
, As a tactical game, the basics are straightforward and recognisable to any Hearthstone dabbler. You get a handful of cards, some are spells and some are creatures that you can summon (or heroes or gods etc). Each creature has numbers denoting their attack strength and health. Every attack (or almost every attack) will prompt a counterattack from the targeted monster. It’s more or less a game of small numbers, random luck and tempo, getting into a position to do slightly more damage than your foe at critical moments. You’ve also got your principal God on the same battlefield. You need to kill the opposing God to win, chipping away at their larger health pool until one of you snuffs it., The difference here is that you’re summoning things to a chess-like board of squares, meaning you can block off enemy attacks with careful positioning, or make use of weaker ranged units by putting them out of your enemies’ reach. You can corner the opposing God so that they have limited space, or fight for some goodies that spawn in the centre ground. It adds an extra dimension to the gurning arithmetic that goes on in your brain during these types of card games. Each turn has to be played in the ideal ordered, logical steps but also with an awareness of space., , There are only a few Gods to start, each bringing its own Pantheon to its deck. As well as a weak and basic attack, these Gods also have a special ability. For example, Zeus can spend a couple of mana (the magic dollars you spend to play the cards) to draw a fresh card from his deck. Odin can buff his summoned dirtbags with a similar mana tithe. The trade-off is that using an ability exhausts the God, so you can’t normally attack and use your special powers. It’s one or the other., The important thing to know is that lesser gods – the kind you can spawn as units on the field – also have these secondary abilities. Aphrodite can put a shield on another unit and heal it. Bastet can summon three weak cats each with 1 attack and 1 health. Loki can teleport an enemy three tiles away and deal it 5 damage. This is an extra thing to keep in mind as you fight. It’s not always as simple as comparing red and green numbers., , There are a bunch of these lesser gods in each pantheon (about 7-9 in each) but only a couple are open to the beginner in the starter decks. To get new cards you earn ‘favour’ and spend it on new packs. These contain 5 random cards. But there’s also the obligatory free-to-play vom, which encourages you to spend real cash to get ‘runes’ that you can spend on packs. The shop full of runes is unsurprisingly tiered to make you spend more. 7 card packs would cost you 500 runes, for example. But the “BUY BUY BUY” page lists only 400 runes or 800 runes as a viable purchase, with no in-between option. It’s classic stuff from the big book of F2P monetary psychology – inventing a faux currency, randomising the results of a loot pack, implementing a slow grind – and there’s nothing here that other similar games don’t indulge in. But that doesn’t make it any less icky. Especially if you buy the founder’s pack and are already paying $20 to test the game for them., , And here’s the kicker. You really are testing this game. Placeholder art is one thing, but bugs and a positively malnourished user interface mean that even a short and steady match will have its “gurr?” moments. I’ll give you an example: I was playing as Zeus, facing down a player wielding a sturdy Ra. I was on the ropes, almost certainly going to lose. But that’s okay, I thought, with my last action this turn I can just splurdge 2 mana and draw a new card., “NotEnoughManaForAbility,” said a banner at the top of the screen., , I checked my mana. I had three., I checked the cost of the ability. “Spend 2 mana to draw a card,” it read., Hm., I lost that match, and I probably still would have lost whether the game let me draw a new card or not. But it was an eye-rolling reminder that I was playing a game that didn’t always function correctly., Other times there is no bug but the game has not explained itself in a reliable way. During another match, I used a ‘stun’ card on an enemy’s ranged minion. From everything I’d experienced thus far, this would stop an enemy minion from taking any action the next turn. I also poisoned her for good measure. That way, she would also die at the end of the next go. It was an expensive set of moves but, unless the enemy God had a purification spell (which removes status effects), the minion was certain to die., I was very confused when she let off a shot and struck me for a nasty 4 damage on the next turn. Obviously, I have missed something here – but what? I looked at the battle log (a little menu to the left that shows previous cards played) but I couldn’t see anything that explained it. Can minions only suffer one status effect at a time? Was this minion immune to stunning? That can’t be it, I saw the little stars whizz around her head. Does ‘stun’ actually just mean a minion can’t move but can still attack? No, because, inspecting the card, it says that stun ‘exhausts’ a unit entirely. Unless ‘exhausts’ means something else? I still don’t know what happened here., , Of course, these moments of confusion were sometimes only a matter of me learning the vocabulary of the game, getting to know the exact effects of each brutish Ymir, or what ‘Pardon’ meant when a giant enemy Fury is storming down the middle of the board towards you (it means the unit can’t be counter-attacked when it strikes). At those moments when I’d misinterpreted something that ought to have been clear, I felt irritated – but only at myself., There are many small differences between this and my usual stomping ground of Duelyst. Your deck is half the size for one thing, bringing only 20 cards to the battle grounds. This is because draw is much slower. You can’t replace a card once per turn, so there’s less ‘digging’ for a particular card to land the killing blow., , But this only makes the matches slower-paced and gives the victim of an opening hand of bad cards a sense that they’ve already lost. Sometimes I have gone two or three turns without even playing a card, simply because I couldn’t afford it in the early game. Normally, if this happened a lot I would consider re-making my deck – but this was with a starter deck, something that ought to be well-rounded. Duelyst’s solution of being able to shuffle a card back in and draw again once per turn dulls the pain of an unlucky draw. With its smaller deck and secondary abilities, I get the feeling that Smite Tactics wants to be a slower, more thoughtful game. But it only succeeds at being the former., With card design, it simply felt like there was a lack of invention. And although each pantheon has its own tone, no god was radically different from another, no strategies seemed unique to any deck. Odin has some swarmy abilities, for example. One card lets him spawn two ranged archers at a time, another spawns two small soldier boys at a time. Then, he can unleash a cheap spell that does 1 damage at random for every friendly minion., , This is a better example of one God’s vibe but even here there is a fundamental design flaw. All those cards need to be played in succession to land the fullest, strongest blow. Spawn the creeps and wait until the next turn and you risk them all being killed by the time you get the chance to cast the cheap damage spell, nullifying it totally. But do what seems natural and correct – play all the cards one after the other – and you’ll find yourself with an empty hand and no way to draw up. This might be a interesting risk/reward mechanic for other players but to me the slow draw speed and low creature count feels like a stifling limitation on the game, a ball and chain that turns everything into a sluggish crawl toward an unsatisfying and non-creative KO., , There are other issues, like I said, mostly with the user interface. The matchmaking boots you back to a previous menu for a few seconds when it has found a match, leaving you wondering if it was successful or not. The campaigns promise to allow you to fight AI puzzles in exchange for rare cards, but this menu was totally empty when I clicked on it. Sometimes a match will end and claim you the victor, but there’s no indication if this was because the enemy conceded or disconnected or what. These are all problems that will likely be fixed but for now they make the whole experience feel a bit sloppy., I feel like I haven’t seen enough of the cards to say for definite whether Smite Tactics has some clever plays and strange tricks embedded in its design. It may well have. But the glacial pace, old fashioned fantasy art (filled to the brim with gratuitous tits), sluggish grind and borked UI mean I can’t help but view it as a poor man’s Duelyst.
Fusions stands out in the library of Dragon Ball video games as an interesting entry in the otherwise fighting-game-heavy collection. It is charming in its willingness to innovate within Dragon Ball, but it never quite executes on any of its pillars.
As you piece together what happened and who you are, reality becomes warped during a few segments. Disturbing images pop up on screen, and some of the later environments don’t comply with the laws of physics. These segments tie into the plot naturally, but aren’t captivating and often feel unnecessary. While my character’s heart rate increased whenever he ran into one of these events, the character models aren’t detailed or animated well enough to induce any real scares. At one point, I lowered the visor of a helmet and laughed at the twisted face inside it as the trademark horror stinger played.
While sniping is the main draw, Fairburne has plenty of other options at his disposal. From trip-mines and TNT that blow enemies to smithereens to rocks and whistles that stealthily lure enemies, Sniper Elite 4 empowers players to approach each mission how they want. While being stealthy has serious advantages at times, if you set yourself up with trip-mines and a lot of secondary weapon ammo, there are few situations you can’t fight your way out of. Because the SMGs, shotguns, and pistols are fun and easy to use, I didn’t mind getting my hands dirty and taking the fight up close. When each goodhearted stealth attempt inevitably ended with my cover being blown and hordes of enemies descending on me, I took comfort that I had access to these effective secondary weapons.
In a very DLC sort of way, Gladiolus steps away from the core party in Final Fantasy XV proper for a bit (during Chapter 7) -- that's where this episode takes place., It's the Gladiolus show, yes indeed, and all of his raw combat power is showcased in this add-on that sees him undertaking a trial to beef up for Noctis. Strangely, Cor Leonis, someone who was barely touched upon in the campaign is here, and earns his place -- but only just a little. He's one of the most fearsome members of the military sworn to King Regis, but he takes a backseat here to the main bro. His inclusion merely serves as a light level of exposition and feels like a missed opportunity to delve further into life in the kingdom of Lucis, something that's glossed over in favor of giving us a reason to watch the Kingsglaive movie., While it's easy to forgive some of the omissions as the story is easy enough to piece together, this would have been the perfect opportunity to push the lore a little more -- as it stands, the free anime episode is more enlightening than this paid DLC., , In fact, clocking in at roughly an hour or two (if you do everything), there isn't much room for anything outside of a slight twist on the already fun combat system. Gladiolus is a little slower than what you're used to, but he does have the gamey rage meter that lets him charge up and unleash new abilities after getting hit or dealing damage. You're basically going to be blocking more than dodging and counter-attacking, which to its credit, does differentiate DLC Gladiolus from playing as Noctis. Pulling giant columns out of the ground and using them to bludgeon enemies to death is also a hilarious touch that meshes with the strongman theme., That cool nuanced combat alteration (which will no doubt spread over into the other characters' DLCs) stops there. Episode Gladiolus is basically a dungeon you'd wander into on the open map, and almost feels like a loose collection of challenge rooms. A comparison Square Enix saw fit to address itself, as it even has a score attack mode that skips cutscenes and turns the whole affair into a speedrun-like deal. Bang bang, slash slash, fight [a more serious rendition of] Gilgamesh, and you're done. As previously mentioned, you do get a shirtless Gladiolus outfit that carries over into the main game, which is a cool little bonus., As someone who absolutely loved every member of the bro-trip party, I was hoping for a little bit more from the first major round of Final Fantasy XV DLC. The game has already received a ton of fantastic free updates, but so far the "Episode" format seems to be something all of us should enjoy in the Game of the Year edition, and not piecemeal., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher. You can access the DLC from the main menu as a separate episode.], Final Fantasy XV: Episode Gladiolus reviewed by Chris Carter, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Hollow from the other side, I must have died a thousand times, I got my Nintendo Switch day one and I've put around 10 hours into The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, the latest game from my favorite series. Not because I don't love it, but because I've been obsessed with Hollow Knight. It is that damned good., In a year that has been absolutely filled to the brim with great games, I can say Hollow Knight is hands down without a doubt in my mind my favorite and surely an early contender for game of the year., , 
I’m glad that the cooking system isn’t overly cumbersome, as it’s absolutely necessary. Among the sweeping changes to series tradition is the method in which you heal yourself. In almost every past entry, you could recover from a damaging battle by simply cutting some grass or breaking some pots until you found enough hearts. That option is nowhere to be found here. You can eat raw food off of the ground if you’d like, but you need to cook meals if you hope to have any serious source of health recovery.
These complaints did little to dampen my enjoyment of the overall experience. I had been underwhelmed by the brief looks at the game I had received prior to release, as most of those snippets involved the early portion that leads you by the hand. While that part of the game boasts its fair share of scares, the really impressive stuff is what comes once things open up. Resident Evil 7 features just the right amount of modern twists mixed into the traditional formula. It may not reach the same heights as an industry-changer like Resident Evil 4, but it certainly ranks among the best entries in the series.
In the 10 hours it took me to get through Owlboy, I never felt like I was going through the motions, and I only once felt like I’d rather skip a part of the game, during a later stealth section aboard a pirate ship where the checkpoints were too spread out. But otherwise, I was constantly facing new situations. A few stealth sections slow the pace down, but they’re (mostly) not too frustrating. A few bombastic set-piece moments, like skimming from rock to rock to avoid a pirate ship’s cannon, punctuate these segments as well.
The original Blaster Master on the NES told the classic tale of a young boy named Jason, who watched his frog jump onto a discarded box of radiation in his backyard before turning into a giant mutant. Jason follows his pet amphibian into a mysterious pit only to discover a high-tech tank named Sophia the 3rd, which he uses to travel through endless caves on a side-scrolling adventure. Blaster Master Zero remixes the story into something resembling the original, except Jason is now a young scientist hunting a frog-like mutant for further study. Overall, the narrative takes itself too seriously and lacks the gonzo charm of the original NES game.
The mysterious faction called the Children of Arkham are responsible for the upheaval in Bruce’s life. We still don’t know why they are doing this to him or what their endgame is; we just know they want Bruce to pay for the crimes his father committed decades ago. This episode repeatedly beats the drum that there is no way out for Bruce, no matter how the player reacts to a scenario – they all end poorly. The thumping of the drum just gets louder and more violent as the plot unravels.
The Golf Club VR has asynchronous multiplayer, but is very light in the features department. Apart from the laudable gameplay and the sheer volume of the courses available, the game lacks a career mode, structure, or any alternate modes. This does not detract from the gameplay, but leaves the Golf Club VR in between clubs with a par on the horizon. 
Nioh will break you down (and note this clearly, this is an uncompromising game that does not mind crushing your dreams) before it lifts you up, but you soon crave the thrill of mastering a new weapon or toppling a titanic boss. Endless optimization and customization, engaging encounters, and unparalleled combat by yourself or with a friend make Nioh an excellent choice for your next dark action/RPG.
Because each ship (made up of several rooms) is randomly generated, combat encounters are always different, which gives Flinthook a great sense of variety. Play long enough and enemies become familiar. But you also begin to recognize them as pieces of a larger challenge; some enemies do nothing but take up space but become more dangerous when protected by shield-generating allies and a sea of cannons. In many cases, the room you’re fighting in is a bigger obstacle than the monsters you’re fighting.
Urban Trial Freestyle 2 challenges you to master a multitude of courses in either stunt mode or time attack. Tracks are treacherous with a variety of jumps, obstacles, and barely noticeable bumps that aim to trip you up. It took me a while to really get into the groove of everything. The key to doing well was not only track memory, but my ability to adjust on the fly. Speeding through a track isn’t necessarily the best way forward as I discovered it was much more important to make sure my bike was well balanced on the ground, going into a jump or coming in for a landing. , In stunt mode, there are a few pre-determined spots where you’ll need to complete the required “stunt.” I put that in quotes because three of the four “stunts” are not stunts at all. You either jump high, jump far, jump a certain distance, or do a flip. At first, I found the scoring for these tricks to be wildly inconsistent but I eventually learned the quirks of the system. For instance, when doing a flip I found that nailing a perfect 360 wasn’t nearly as well received as slightly going over. , Tracks aren’t necessarily built to make performing these “stunts” easy. In fact, many of them seemed to be actively working against me and nailing a four or five-star run required multiple attempts. Branching pathways made replaying the tracks enjoyable, but the poor placement of checkpoints hurt the experience. They almost feel like they’re inserted at random and several tracks could be greatly improved with some checkpoint adjustments. One I remember had a series of difficult sections with a small break in between the two most difficult jumps. Clearing this part of the track took roughly 20 tries, a number that could have been cut in half had the checkpoint been moved from the end of this section to the middle. I know that sounds like a you-need-to-get-gud complaint, but many other tracks where I didn’t face any troublesome jumps also had checkpoints that made little sense in their location., , I don’t think I’ve ever given much thought to a game’s menus in any of my previous reviews, but I need to take a moment to tell you how awful they are here. Tracks are grouped together in several different locations, such as highways and suburbs. When you select a location, you can choose the track you want to play, but after you are done with it, you can either go to the next track in the group or exit back out and repeat the selection process. The rest of the menus look straight out of the '90s and feel like a first draft. , Nowhere is the poor menu system more evident than in the track builder. You can build and upload your own uniquely designed tracks as well as download those designed by others. The options are extensive for building your ultimate track, but there’s no smart or simple way to navigate its available elements. When placing pieces on your track, you can’t easily snap them together to make an easier ride. Creating a quality track took a lot, a lot, of trial and error as I had to learn the jump angles possible from each individual jump. Having more options would have kept me in the mode for longer, or even just the option to move where the finish line is. , As for unlockables, there is new gear you can purchase - all of which is just as ugly as the rest of the game - as well as upgrades for your bikes. There are four bikes to unlock that each handle in their own unique way and upgrades you can purchase for those bikes. , I’m sure there is a demographic out there that Urban Trial Freestyle 2 will appeal to, but it is clear to me now that I am not a part of that key demo. While I can appreciate what they were going for here and I found myself really getting into the challenge, any feeling of joy I experience doesn’t last for long when I’m faced with so many bewildering design choices., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Urban Trial Freestyle 2 reviewed by CJ Andriessen, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Waaagh to the future, I've been playing Warhammer tabletop for nearly 20 years, and I've seen what feels like hundreds of games based on the property come and go. Some stick with me, like Total War: Warhammer. Others fall by the wayside and are forgotten like Fire Warrior., But the Dawn of War series has been one of the most consistent sub-franchises of all. Even with some of the missteps in the third iteration, it's still relevant.
After the crew of the UNSC warship Spirit of Fire wakes up from a quarter-century cryogenic nap, they discover that humanity’s war against the Covenant has ended. Stranded a galaxy from home, the crew responds to an emergency beacon only to encounter a bloodthirsty faction of the Covenant known as the Banished. Their leader – an imposing Brute named Atriox – dismantles a team of three Spartans in their first skirmish. As tensions escalate, the Spirit of Fire’s crew is forced to push back against these battle-hardened space gorillas and uncover the mystery at the heart of a new Forerunner installation.
Quick Draw has two players raising their controllers and pressing the trigger when the announcer says "fire," awarding the win to the fastest time. Fake Draw does the exact same thing, but with a few false audio cues thrown in. Telephone times who can pick up their controller the fastest when the ringer goes off. Samurai Training challenges you to swing your controller before your opponent can react. All of them boil down to simple reflex tests, and use the same technology present in virtually every modern controller and smartphone. None of them are fun beyond the inherent entertainment of staring down a friend and seeing who can move faster, which is why the game constantly prompts you to make eye contact with your opponent – despite throwing up images and score indicators on the display that it apparently doesn't want you to look at. Either way, you and your friends are better off just playing the hand-slap game; the sting of defeat will wear off much quicker than the sting of wasting your money.
Planet Coaster is almost a misnomer. While roller coasters are certainly a star attraction for any theme park, that’s only one element in Planet Coaster’s larger diorama. Frontier Developments (of Roller Coaster Tycoon fame) has created a complete theme park simulator that allows you to customize little details (like the speed of your tilt-a-whirl) while managing a staff and funding advertisement campaigns to attract the masses across the country.
, Death comes easily to the intrepid hex explorer. If you’re lucky, you’ll just get a quick bandit axe in the forehead. But if you’re like me, only the most scurrilous death will do. In a poison bog surrounded by old swamp hags, for example. Or deep underground at the hands of deranged cultists and their bat minions. These are just some of the ways you can (will) die in For The King, a shiny and modern-looking RPG that nevertheless retains a good and ancient heart. And by that I mean it has absolutely no qualms about murdering you.
The gameplay systems are explained over the course of a lengthy tutorial that mostly works. The higher you progress, the more options you unlock, including higher-tier fighters, vending machine boosts, and customizable decals to augment your roster of punishers. Of particular note is the Tokyo Death Metro, which allows you to invade other player’s headquarters and rob them of resources. You have to fight through any defenders they may have set up in their base, but you have a chance to capture downed fighters and bring them back to your own base to drain their life essence for even more resources. This incurs the ire of the players you rob, who will likely come back and try to rescue their fallen fighter. This player-vs-player system is fun, and feels quite similar to base-bashing mobile games like Clash of Clans, with players selecting and representing a faction (states, countries, etc.) to create larger wars.
Video games rarely delve into the realm of political critique. When they do, they’re often explicitly concerned with the present, targeting presidential candidates or recent events. Orwell is notable because it tries to pull off the tricky combo of being timeless and uncomfortably topical, and does so with mixed success. The game casts you as an investigator using Orwell, a nationwide surveillance system that can spy on anyone at any time. It lets you view emails and pictures, and allows you to listen in on intimate conversations and choose what bits of information to give to your supervisor. The supervisor then acts on that information, choosing to call the police on certain suspects or use various details you’ve collected during interrogations. You and your supervisor are investigating a recent terrorist bombing tied to a group of academic bloggers (yes, really).
It doesn’t feel like the map is huge for the sake of being huge. While there are stretches of unpopulated land, I never felt like I was at a loss for things to do. There are plenty of shrines to locate, wildlife to photograph and hunt, minerals and food to collect, friendly characters to help, and camps of enemies to battle and loot. One of my favorite things that happened frequently was finding myself out of my league. Since I spent so many of my early hours exploring the world, I’d inevitably wander into areas that I was not properly equipped for. Rather than running from these higher-level enemies, I saw them as a challenge. With no items being gated behind dungeons, I knew that the tools to beat these enemies were already at my disposal, even if any one of their attacks could wipe me out instantaneously. Taking out a Lynel late in the game feels like an accomplishment. Slaying one when I only had five heart containers felt like a triumph.
The original Blaster Master wore its inspirations on its sleeve, melding the exploration of Metroid with the dungeon-crawling of The Legend of Zelda. It was a working formula that helped build a sizeable cult following. Flash forward almost three decades and Inti Creates has taken that original blueprint and used it as a foundation to build a remaster that follows faithfully in the spirit of the original game while expanding on a number of important areas. The basic world layout is similar to the original NES title, but Inti Creates has liberally redesigned several areas, created new boss fights, and added a few modern conveniences such as navigation markers. However, Blaster Master Zero often feels like it’s going through the motions, and its retro aesthetic feels uninspired. Despite this attempt to revitalize the brand, Blaster Master Zero feel like the product of a bygone era.
As for the action, fights are losing their luster. I can only tap so many buttons to kill a string of zombies before it all starts to blend together. Telltale has tried to alleviate this by adding some different mechanics to ratchet up the intensity. For instance, as your group is fighting off a swarm from breaking through a gate, you must secure a safe place. In another scene, when you finally confront an awful person, you can choose how many times you want to hit them to illustrate your anger. Telltale has done this in the past, but putting justice in your hands feels more satisfying.
Poor interface design ensures that the action itself never feels dynamic for too long, either. Pulling up the map, an objective list, or any other in-game menu is a clunky endeavor that slows things down considerably. Tagging enemies requires you to bring up your phone, switch to the camera, and hope that you can pass the center of the lens over the enemy model directly: Any obstruction, even see-through mesh fences, prevent the camera from acquiring the target.
Thankfully, the checkpoint system is generous, often resetting to right before you encounter the enemy that killed you. While I appreciate this, it has a tendency to backfire during intense segments like being pinned down by a tank. When this happened, I either needed to restart my mission altogether (less than ideal, since missions can take between one and two hours on first attempt) or sprint away and hope the enemies miss me. The feeling of hopelessness and frustration that sprung from such situations made me thankful it didn’t happen regularly.
A billion years in Earth’s future, many civilizations have risen and fallen, leaving behind a detritus of science that may as well be magic to the newest inheritors of the planet. One man has tapped into that wealth of lost knowledge and discerned the secret to immortality. He casts off bodies at his convenience, leaving behind new personalities in the discarded husks. You are one of these husks, and you awake to life tumbling from orbit at terminal velocity, speeding to meet the ground below. 
With minimal stat-tracking, a lack of a progression system, and no long-term play options like seasons or tours, I don't feel compelled to return to any of the modes outside of the allure of the simplistic gameplay and working to find the best characters for my playstyle. Luckily, that aspect does add some interesting wrinkles into the mix.
Other games do more to highlight the system's limitations than its potential. Copy Dance and Runway encourage you to strike silly poses, but all that really matters is the orientation of the controller. I wildly flailed a single hand during a round of Dance Off, and not only did I beat my more sincere dance opponent, I received an "A" for rhythm (I can assure you, I have zero rhythm). These games aren't fun, but their failure runs even deeper; they undermine the Switch's capabilities by relying on obvious smoke and mirrors.
Andromeda compares most favorably to previous entries when the bullets and biotics start flying. This is the best combat has ever felt in the series. The controls are responsive, the action is fluid, and the focus on mobility leads to more dynamic encounters. You aren’t just hunkering down under the same crate to shoot at distant foes; different enemy types keep you moving by flushing you out, at which point you dash and jump to a new location. Though the auto-cover can be frustratingly inconsistent, you are never in the same place for too long, and using a combination of powers and weapons to buy yourself breathing room leads to many thrilling moments.
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is primarily a re-release of an acclaimed game from three years ago, but by adding new content and addressing the biggest complaint of the original, this version is unquestionably the best way to experience Nintendo's great racer. Battle mode is back to its original glory, and when combined with the rest of the robust Mario Kart 8 package, it creates a great addition to the fledgling Switch library.
Taking inspiration from the likes of Easy Rider, Mad Max, and the works of Hunter S. Thompson, Full Throttle was a strange game in 1995 – and it remains strange today. A comedic revenge tale set in the post-apocalypse, Full Throttle puts players in the leather boots of Ben, the leader of a motorcycle gang known as the Polecats who get caught up in a bloody conspiracy. For this remaster, Double Fine has completely redone the visuals, touched up the audio, and packed the game with bonus features (much like it did with Day of the Tentacle Remastered). These enhancements make this fantastic adventure game’s age-related shortcomings easier to bear for newcomers and those making a return trip.
Utopia is the first major expansion for Stellaris, Paradox Development Studio’s 4X, grand strategy space hydra. It’s a term that normally conjures up images of a perfect society, all green and chill and maybe a little like Star Trek’s United Federation of Planets. That’s nice, I guess, but what if your idea of perfection is building a civilization on the backs of robotic slaves? And what about a monstrous hive of ravenous beasties that won’t rest until all matter in the universe has been consumed? What would its utopia look like? I’ve been experimenting with a galaxy-sized petri dish to find out. , You don’t need to get very far into Stellaris to see the impact of Utopia and its accompanying free patch, titled Banks. The moment you enter your species-creating laboratory, things should immediately look pretty different. , , Crafting a government now involves picking components from three distinct lists: ethics, authority and civics. Ethics aren’t entirely new, but there are a couple of replacements – egalitarianism and authoritarianism – that change the statistical bonuses found within the concentric circles that help define your society. Your picks then inform what type of governments your newly-spawned civilisation can construct by selecting an authority, like democratic or imperial, and then civics. The latter is a meaty list from which you can choose two civics, running the gamut from shadow council, conferring a 50 percent bonus to influencing elections, to mechanist, which gives you droids to play with right from the get go. , I’ve got a penchant for making techy, nerdy aliens with a hard-on for robots, but until Utopia, a lot of that had to be just in my head. Sure, I could invest in more research facilities and eventually make a breakthrough that allowed me to build automatons, but any species can do that. In Utopia, there are considerably more ways to make my eggheads stand out. It’s possible to start developing a society of machines from day one, and with other civics, small but important boosts to research make it clear to everyone in the galaxy: these lab coats ain’t just for show., , This extra fine-tuning leads to a greater sense of control, and that feeling that you’re able to better determine the direction of your species extends well beyond the species creator, notably thanks to traditions. These are, essentially, Stellaris’ very own version of national focuses, which you might be familiar with if you’ve dabbled in Paradox’s flagship grand strategy game, Europa Universalis. , By spending a new resource, unity, trees can be unlocked, each containing five bonuses themed around a specific ideology, of which there are seven. Reducing unrest, lowering ship costs, unlocking new types of colony ships – traditions affect every aspect of Stellaris while also providing empires with a more distinct identity. They also ensure that progression feels constant. Even when you’re well into the end-game, development persists., , The real benefit of the tradition system takes a bit of time to reveal itself, however. See, once you’ve unlocked all five of them in a single tree, you can choose an ascension perk, and this is where Paradox have gone all out in creating the fantasy of leading a highly advanced, space-faring empire. Some of the perks confer massive bonuses, like the world shaper’s 100 percent increase in terraforming speed. But the ones you’ll really want to play around with have an even more tangible impact. Synthetic evolution turns your entire species into robots. Transcendence makes everyone telepathic. And there are three different perks that let you construct fancy sci-fi megastructures like space habitats, Dyson spheres and, yes, finally, ringworlds. , It takes a significant amount of time to access these game-changing perks, and then even more time, resources and research to implement them. You won’t be turning your population into machines or consuming every planet in a solar system to create a massive ringworld right away, but the early-game is already busy enough as it is. What they do is highlight possible directions, nudging empires down different, logical paths with massive rewards waiting for you once you’ve put in the time. , , Synthetic Evolution doesn’t just make everyone robots – it means that you can happily colonise any potentially habitable planet regardless of the biome. Oh yeah, and everyone becomes immortal. Conveniently, robots don’t eat, either, so it’s no longer necessary to worry about food production, at least not for your synthetic citizens. Priorities change, then, and new avenues open up, blessing the later parts of Stellaris with the novelty and sense of discovery that was previously more evident in the earlier exploration and colonisation phase., If expansion and developing new colonies are what you crave the most, you don’t need to stop, either. Even once you’ve exhausted every colonisable planet, it’s possible to continue growing your vast space empire through habitats, which can orbit most worlds, creating more room in which a multitude of citizens can be crammed, along with plenty of resource-generating buildings. Ringworlds, meanwhile, can turn unappealing solar systems into megastructures that are effectively four Gaia-class planets all rolled into one gargantuan building encircling a sun. , , Despite the aforementioned constant progression, the benefits of traditions can threaten to become a little redundant, and while the purpose they serve is an important one, forcing players to unlock an entire tree to get a perk strips away some flexibility. , Take the journey of my space nerds, for instance. I started by focusing on the discovery tree, with its myriad bonuses to exploration and science, which made complete sense for my friendly species of scientists who liked mathematics more than conquest. With that tree complete, I selected the perk that gave me a 10 percent buff to research. I was doing a lot of building and working on a beefy fleet, so the prosperity tree was a natural next step, and once that was complete, I turned everyone into a cyborg. As you do. But by the time I’d gone down yet another tree and finally created a perfect synthetic species, I found myself a bit stumped. I had both the time and inclination to get several new perks, but none of the trees really seemed relevant to either the theme of my empire or my needs. So I was going through the motions, unlocking more unnecessary traditions just so I could get to the good stuff. , , More choices would certainly help, but the real problem is the rule that you must work your way through every single tradition in a tree before getting access to a new perk. That Stellaris makes so many playstyles and paths viable – normally a boon – becomes an issue here because inevitably you’re going to have to spend a vast amount of unity on things that simply don’t matter to you. , While this system attempts – and sometimes succeeds – to solve the problem where, once you’ve build the foundations of your empire, there’s a lot of waiting around for interesting things to happen, it can sometimes exacerbate it. It is not, however, alone, and is joined in its effort by a reworked faction system. Previously, factions were effectively just rebellious groups of dissidents, but now they can represent political parties or large movements, like religious groups railing against a secular empire. And they don’t all exist in opposition to the establishment. They might fully support it. This depends on their values and objectives, and if they’re being catered to. , , Factions can be managed indirectly by studying their values and then attempting to pander to them. If a faction demanding better treatment for aliens is getting a bit upset, maybe consider not enslaving every new species you meet? But there are also direct actions you can take by suppressing them, promoting their ideology, or fully embracing them, potentially changing the ethics of your society. Ignoring them increases the chances of creating unrest, as citizens become unhappy, which can lead to riots, terrorism and schisms within the empire. This adds continuous agency and personality to populations while making engaging with them considerably more compelling than simply dealing with angry rebels, and importantly it’s clear how you can solve any problems that they might create. , But you know who doesn’t care about factions? Hive Minds. By picking the Hive Mind ethic when you create your species, you get a unique authority separate from the other political systems and your own set of civics that make your rather disturbing new species completely distinct. Hive Minds don’t suffer from unhappiness, they don’t create factions, they consume any aliens that live inside their empires, and any member of the Hive Mind that leaves will eventually die. , , The impact of playing a Hive Mind seeps into almost every element of Stellaris, sometimes in minor ways, but frequently major ones. How you approach expansion or dealing with other species is dramatically different. And there’s a certain appeal in playing an organic machine that feeds on other lifeforms and doesn’t give two hoots about comfort or happiness. In a Hive Mind’s utopia, everyone is on the same page and working towards the same goals. But playing as this single-minded tyrant also means forgoing some of Stellaris’ best new features, like the increasingly complex political game and population management. If you need a break from intensive micromanagement, however, then Hive Minds may prove to be a seductive prospect. , Utopia and the accompanying free update fix a great many niggles found within Stellaris. Storytelling and discovery have always been the game’s strong points, while empire management and politics could sometimes feel a bit underwhelming, especially when things start to slow down by the middle of the game. While not every issue is solved, great strides have been made towards maintaining the game’s pace from the start, fleshing out populations and generally making the galaxy feel even more alive and more diverse. , However! Factions, most civics, traditions, the reworked government system and a multitude of other tweaks and improvements are all available for free with the Banks patch. Utopia enhances them, adding the more advanced civics, ascension perks and megastructures, but it’s really just building on the excellent foundations created by the update. These enhancements are great, sometimes even game-changing, but Paradox are offering so much for free that it makes the actual premium DLC less vital.
Riffing off the stellar Numenera tabletop RPG, Torment launches onto its own trajectory with the fiction, and achieves a peerless approach to world-building. From characters to locations, nearly every moment is populated with some new conceptual anomaly. A merchant is slowly transforming into an insect due to the radiation of his wares. City guards are artificial constructs formed from a single year of life stolen from each of the city’s citizens. An old man works alongside his younger self prior to being flung back in time. One character I met answered the query of who they were with the phrase: “Some might describe me as a superpositional extraction of fundamental universal laws made tangible.” And an entire major location within the game is a miles-wide extradimensional being with mouths that open into different universes. Torment delights in its bizarre personality, and most of the time that makes for great fun. But when everyone you meet is an enigmatic stranger with a twisted backstory and a reticence to share their secrets, the novelty is occasionally lost.  
Every Monday we order Brendan to examine the early access entrails for signs of coming chaos. This week, the guts tell of a magical and old-fashioned RPG called For The King [official site] with strange rougelike properties…
The original Shadow Warrior probably ranks among the more forgettable Doom clones, arriving in 1997 shortly before the likes of Half-Life, Quake, and Unreal made first-person shooters one of gaming’s most popular genres. Flying Wild Hog’s 2013 reboot channeled the irreverent humor of the original game into a modern first-person slasher/shooter that was smart enough to bank on its own arcadey action rather than mine nostalgia. Flying Wild Hog’s sequel tries to expand on that solid foundation, introducing RPG-like elements and a quest system in a semi-open world that emulates the likes of Borderlands and Destiny. While that sounds promising on paper, Shadow Warrior 2 is a prime example of how bigger is not always better.
By far, the most obvious upgrades to the original game come in the form of visuals and the weapon progression system. Insomniac takes full advantage of 14 years of graphical advancements and several installments’ worth of memorable weapons, and the end result is a Ratchet & Clank game that never feels like a simple throwback. Visually, it’s one of the most impressive games on the PlayStation 4. Enemies animate beautifully, the environments are gorgeous, and the action is perfectly chaotic with enemies, bolts, and explosions taking up every inch of the screen’s real estate.
Predictability is hard to come by in Infinite Air's trick system – an ignominious position for such a major gameplay component. Spin is generated by pre-loading your rider before launch, and the amount of spin you get decays the longer you hold down the triggers (for left or right spin, respectively). But this isn't the tricky part, as you can become accustomed to this (and pulling off tricks in general) after several hours of play. Stopping your rotation, however, is another matter altogether. Some previous trick-based games like Tony Hawk or Skate are built around specific inputs producing specific tricks. The fact that Infinite Air is physics-based and eschews the Tony Hawk-type direct approach means there is no way to predict when you're going to stop rotating once you start. This isn't a big problem when you're spinning in the normal horizontal plane, but if you try and perform tricks containing end-over-end flips or rolls, you have no way of judging whether you'll land on your feet or not.
Unplugging your first character from the Matrix-style tubing and setting off into the sky-high Tower of Barbs is a daunting, strange task. Scooping up mouthfuls of exotic mushrooms, battling an endless stream of foes with scavenged red-hot irons, and attempting to stave off death until the next elevator checkpoint is just the beginning of a layered adventure that pits you against deadly traps, bosses, and other players in asynchronous high-stakes combat. 
Mass Effect: Andromeda is a marked improvement over its predecessors in two areas: graphics and gunplay. The Frostbite engine proves itself quite capable of rendering the best-looking alien locales in Mass Effect history, and the shooting is more nimble and varied than it's ever been. In every other way--assembling a crew of engaging characters, meeting exotic aliens with intriguing stories to tell, flying around in your own starship solving problems big and small in a galaxy colored in shades of gray; in other words all the things that make Mass Effect unique and memorable--Andromeda takes one, two, or three steps back. It's also an utter mess in a technical sense. There are a few enjoyable moments here and there, and over time you can see the skeletal framework of a better game start to emerge, but given the heights Mass Effect has reached in the past, it's hard to believe this is what we've been waiting five years for.
Stories Untold is a unique four-hour experience that both horror fans and those who love to dissect head-scratching enigmas should check out. Though a number of frustrating puzzles may prove too tiresome for many, those who stick with it will find themselves rewarded with a treasure trove of gruesome and morbid delights. 
Telltale has made its name touting narrative choice in its games, but episode one of the Guardians series feels too linear in structure to allow real investment in guiding the outcome of the story. I like that one important scene can unfold differently based on your choice, and another event brings one or another major character along for the ride. But the actual conclusions of multiple playthroughs emerge largely undifferentiated one from another. I hope the later episodes prove me wrong, and I begin to see my decisions shape the state of galactic affairs – but we’ve been down this road many times before with Telltale, and usually end up disappointed.
It's a shame, because there are elements around the edges of Wildlands that, if fleshed out more effectively, could have made for a better game. Take the story, for example. A Mexican drug cartel decides to leave home and set up shop closer to the source of its product: Bolivia. There, it creeps into multiple elements of society, turning the nation into a full-on, brazen narco-state. Your role is that of a set of four "operators," in country to work for the CIA on... a revenge mission? An undercover CIA guy is dead, and that's your flimsy entry into the story. Early on, the characters remark that they just need to get that revenge and get out before getting wrapped up in the politics of the coca trade. And then you proceed to get wrapped up in the politics of the coca trade, working with rebels to slowly dismantle the drug cartel's Bolivian branch.
I keep coming back to that desperate phrase: “If only...” It’s a phrase that the Resistance repeats over and over: “If only we had Walker…”; “If only we had a tank…”; “If only we had more people…” Sometimes the pacifist doctor or a pragmatic collaborator chides the group for their simplistic idealism: Shouldn’t we aim for achievable progress instead of impossible utopia? Instead of “If only we had...”, shouldn’t we instead ask “Okay, what do we have and what can we do with it?” This is a debate worth having--after all, it’s a debate that both of the major American political parties have been having internally for the better part of the last year. But despite the game’s earnest tone, Homefront never leaves space for these ideas to be debated narratively or mechanically. Instead, the dissenting voices are shut down and the Hail Mary pass is reaffirmed as the only way forward.
Franchise mode once again allows you to micro-manage every facet of your team, right down to the budget, scouting, and player moods. You can now select the level of complexity you want from these tasks from the outset. Easy handles just coaching, medium rolls in player development, hard adds general manager tasks. You can still turn these functions on or off, but from the outset, you can tailor the experience to your liking. Trade logic and the simulated results didn’t produce too many oddities in the three seasons I simulated.
Things pick up years later in an occupied Philadelphia where “The Resistance” struggles to expel the Korean People’s Army from the city. Philadelphia is split into distinct zones (with a fairly hefty load as you travel between them). Half of the areas are “red zones,” bombed-out battlefields where the resistance fights openly against the KPA. The other half are “yellow zones,” occupied residential districts where regular folks try to carry on life in the presence of police brutality, american collaborators and… well, that’s about all we’re given really. Homefront never stops to paint a picture of civilian life under the KPA. What little detail it provides about the setting mostly comes through dry journal entries and laughable graffiti scattered across the game. But things are bad, Homefront insists, very bad. And the Resistance needs help.
You’ve probably seen some of what The Last Guardian has to offer in other games, especially if you’ve played Ico and Shadow of the Colossus (the previous titles from creator Fumito Ueda). Playing as a boy exploring ancient ruins, you climb chains, pull levers, and find arcane devices. However, you are accompanied by a large mythical beast called Trico, and the presence of this companion is at the core of what makes this journey unique.
There's a multiplayer mode and some slightly odd user-created content features in here, but the single-player campaign alone is worth the price of entry, and there are so many great things I want to say about it that it's hard to know where to begin. The best place to start is with the origins of Doom itself, since this new game picks up the tenets of its seminal predecessor and runs with them. The maps are big and complex, with multiple crisscrossing paths, locked doors, and a good amount of backtracking. The shooting is fast, it hits hard, and it never lets you stop moving for a second. You don't even reload your weapons. You don't even reload your weapons!
Your Pokédex offers more visual reward for collecting Pokémon, though the act of catching the creatures is unchanged. You can tell immediately if a Pokémon has an evolution when you catch it, and when you collect a full set, the background color of that Pokémon’s entry changes. It’s a small flair, but it makes filling out your Pokédex enticing, and it is easier to see what entries are missing.
Tethering vehicles to each other or the environment was one of the funniest elements of Just Cause 2, and the enhanced tether in this entry really opens up the possibilities, You can now shoot out numerous tethers at once, and retract them at any time by holding the left trigger. This functionality is responsible for many of my favorite moments in the game, from causing fighter jets to crash into each other to launching a dead cow cartoonishly far off of a cliff. It’s good that causing mayhem in Just Cause 3 feels so good, because that’s what you’ll be doing for essentially the entire game. Unlocking powerful late-game jets and helicopters is cool at first, but then you realize that they’re just another way to get from settlement to settlement to destroy the same fuel tanks, generators, towers, and satellite dishes that you see ad nauseam throughout the entire game. A couple of the game’s 25 story missions incorporate some nice setpiece moments, but the majority of them don’t do much to differentiate themselves from the typical “hey, blow this thing up” routine (one odd outlier involved nothing more than driving a truck filled with wine casks for about two minutes). For a game that's almost wholly based around creating gigantic explosions at every turn, the PlayStation 4 version of the game has a difficult time keeping up when things get really chaotic. While liberating towns or destroying especially large items, the frame rate frequently dips dramatically. I never felt like I lost control over Rico or missed shots (thanks in part to the game's generous auto-aim), but it was disheartening to see these technical issues considering how smoothly the PC version ran even during the most explosive situations. A one-note experience isn’t necessarily a bad thing when it delivers on that one thing exceptionally well. Just Cause 3 has occasional physics problems and a lack of variety, but it’s fantastic if you just want to drop into a world and immediately start blowing it up. Upon completion of the story, you can even “re-oppress” individual settlements purely for the purpose of blowing them up all over again. It’s hard to complain about the gameplay feeling samey considering I’ve spent over 40 hours in the game and I’m still looking forward to going back and taking out more settlements. Avalanche clearly knows what this game is all about, and you should too if you want to give it a shot. If you’re aware of the game’s limitations and you’re still eager to blow an open world straight to hell, few games do it better than Just Cause 3.
Everything’s sales pitch is hard to swallow at first: You’re an entity capable of hijacking every single thing in the universe. And when I say “thing,” the vagueness is intentional. Animals. Houses. Microorganisms. Constellations. Everything is a strange hybrid of Journey and Katamari Damacy; it is purely about the joy and terror of exploration, both material and spiritual, which ends up being Everything’s greatest asset and biggest annoyance.
Nioh borrows heavily from other games that have inspired it, like Dark Souls and Diablo. Despite the foundation coming from familiar stock, the title manages to differentiate itself with complex combat, a mission system that fosters replayability, and creative customization. Pushing the player into extremely challenging encounters and environments creates immeasurable tension and stress, which can lead to sincere satisfaction and rich rewards for those with the tenacity to carry on through demon-infested lands. 
Finding a spot with a great view of the battlefield, staring down the scope of your rifle, and taking out your enemies before they even know what hit them is a thrilling moment in any shooter. With the fourth entry of Sniper Elite, a franchise built on delivering on that feeling, developer Rebellion has created a well-rounded and empowering sandbox shooter.
In 2013, Colorado Rockies first baseman Todd Helton used the hidden ball trick to record the final out of an inning, faking a throw to the pitcher to make Matt Carpenter of the St. Louis Cardinals step off of the base. This year’s MLB The Show also appears to have something to hide, as prominent new features push players to steer clear of the main game to experience a retro-styled arcade mode, manage a team through a simulated gamecast, or even spend time in the locker room figuring out what a rookie says to his agent on the phone.
Yoshi’s Woolly World is the best Yoshi’s Island game since the original released for Super Nintendo in 1995. Seeing its gameplay on a different platform seemed entirely possible, but the Wii U version took full advantage of the console’s HD visuals which made a port to the 3DS suspect. Thankfully, despite the small visual downgrade, Woolly World is still a great platformer, even on 3DS.
It takes several chapters for the game to really get moving, as it’s dead set on selling you on the character of Sam Drake. My early skepticism faded before too long, as Sam’s personality, storyline, and Troy Baker’s voice acting creates a character that’s critical to the overall experience from both a narrative and gameplay perspective. He’s only in one game in this four-game series (five if you count Golden Abyss), and yet Sam is responsible for more memorable moments than any other Uncharted character outside of Nathan or Sully.
Every boss is a highlight, forcing you to maneuver deftly or use every tool at your disposal in clever ways. In many of them, the dynamic of avoiding projectiles while waiting for a tell mixes well with the Metroid-esque tendency to use the newest weapon at your disposal. Not all of the fights work this way; one boss, a giant worm, adheres more closely to the “avoid bullets and shoot the weakpoint” school of boss design, but it’s still a fun fight. 
The palaces are deliberately crafted, not randomly generated. This is a noteworthy evolution for the series, but within the larger RPG landscape, their designs still feel outdated. I appreciate the attempts to add dimension by letting players jump on top of some objects and hide behind others, but they aren’t consistent enough. You run though many flat, boxy corridors, and rarely encounter obstacles beyond simple puzzles and locked doors. Don’t interpret that to mean the palaces aren’t impressive in other ways; I love their visual and thematic executions tied to their owners’ twisted desires, but the act of exploring them is the least interesting part of the game.
You can also physically move around the space with your feet, which is something the majority of shooters in VR don’t let you do. Movement is limited – more baby steps and leaning than running about guns blazing – but it gives you a surprising amount of options to use against enemies. For example, you might literally stoop in real life to duck beside a table in the game and then scooch to the left to avoid a knife swing by an approaching opponent so you can deliver an uppercut a second later.
Conton City is the biggest change, and it is the best part of Xenoverse 2. The hub world lets you explore, find unlockables, and just generally hang out. It can also be opened up to the internet where it functions as an online lobby hosting hundreds of players simultaneously, and plays out like a giant, weird Dragon Ball Z party. Tons of people are always standing around, all with their customized characters looking for party members to join them online. I spent most of my time standing in front of other players and exploring the myriad animated emotes. Conton City is where you get to see all the unlockable clothing and accessory items that function as references to the franchise, and interact with familiar characters. It fully embraces Dragon Ball’s silliness, and it’s where I had the most fun.
Outside of the lack of the more recent PC expansions and the simulation speed options, Cities: Skylines - Xbox One Edition is every bit as good as its PC counterpart. The mayoral planning fantasy is still intact with this version, and now easier than ever to get into. Simply put, if you're an Xbox One owner who is a fan of city-building simulation games, you need to check out Cities: Skylines.
Every week we dump Brendan out the back of a plane and into the hotbed of gunfire that veterans know only as ‘early access’. This week, the competitive murderfields of PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds [official site]., I’m halfway across the river when the net starts closing in. A huge electric field looms up behind me, sparkling and fizzing and nipping at my heels as I swim for my life. Having just dodged a player driving by in his jeep, I was now going to die of wounds slowly inflicted over time by the game itself, simply for not being in the right place. I kicked and swam, even as the electric field overtook me and my screen started to slowly bleed. If I didn’t reach the safe zone soon – marked by a white circle on the mini-map, I’d be dead. Oh well, I figured, there are less interesting ways to go.
Another significant issue arises from the obstacles that block your progress. I hesitate to call them “puzzles,” because they aren’t that complex; they aren’t built for experimentation, and don’t provide a sense of accomplishment when you finish them. For instance, you have a telekinetic wand that can lift all sorts of objects. But can you use it to pull a battery through a gap that is clearly big enough? No. Instead, you need to have your pet dinosaur squeeze through a hole and push the battery through the gap from the other side – and then you can pick it up with telekinesis. On top of the minimal amount of guidance you are given, the inconsistency of these roadblocks makes them frustrating and unsatisfying to solve.
At no point did I miss the traditional perspective and tank controls. This doesn’t play like a first-person shooter, it plays like a Resident Evil game that happens to be in first-person. Ammo is sparse, so you’ll have to make tough decisions regarding when to use it. When I decided to bring the guns out, I kicked myself for every missed shot. Not only are bullets a valuable commodity, but death can come quickly when you’re reloading during a tense enemy encounter or boss fight.
This reimagining of Ratchet & Clank is successful on every front. If you have kids that were just introduced to these characters thanks to the movie, this serves as one of the most effective movie tie-in games out there. If you’re a longtime fan of the series, this entry will bring back fond memories of the original while introducing new elements and featuring all of the solid visuals and controls you’d expect from an action game in 2016. If you’ve never played the series at all, there couldn’t be a better jumping-on point to introduce you to the characters, weapons, and gameplay of Insomniac’s flagship series. The only downside is that it doesn't do anything in particular to push the franchise forward as a whole, opting instead to act as a sort of "greatest hits" of the series' trademarks. Those looking for the next leap forward for the franchise won't get that here, but I'm plenty happy with it serving as a standalone encapsulation of all of the elements that make Ratchet & Clank great.
, Aesthetically and tonally, it puts me a little in mind of the Katamari games – that point where what would, in the wrong hands, be mere random wackiness tilts successfully into surreal joy. Weirdo creatures, order-givers who straddle the line between chummy and malevolent and, rather than a king in tight tights, we get a laconic Scottish astronaut with a baby’s face and a space-teapot on his head. This is a delightfully-presented game, and though many of its sights and sounds are entirely arbitrary, it always stops short of annoying. Folk from the likes of Adventure Time, Hohokum and Alphabear contributed to development, and boy does that collective expertise and ingenuity show., , Here’s the deal. You’re a spaceperson yourself, traipsing across various planetary landscapes divided into hexes and patrolled by the titular Rascals, whom you must clobber or be clobbered by. Combat is turn-based and activates whenever you share a space with an evil egg, a girl who shouts ‘bolus’, a clanky robot, a three-eyed Chewbacca or whatever wonderful oddity you’ve bumped into. , By and large, victory is decided by having sufficient attack power and defence power, and this is determined by the cards you have equipped. Blue ones add to your defence points, orange ones add to your offence, and any one may have bonus abilities that confer extra points to other cards, depending on where exactly you place them., , Card placement is half the game here – the maths of working out what arrangement maxes out your stats, and making painful decisions about what cards to bench because they don’t take advantage of some other bonus. Number goes up, number goes down, wait a minute, number goes WAY up. The combinations are impeccably well-balanced, with cards often having fiendish negative effects such as -2 if it’s in on the bottom row or docking a point from every card of the same type. , Basically, what this means is that you’re constantly swapping stuff out, not sitting pretty with The One True Deck, and unlike a Diablolike, a new card can have a dramatic rather than subtle effect on your numbers. If there was a way to sit there with an infinite deck of cards, endlessly fiddling in pursuit of the biggest number possible, I fear I would lose a whole day to it. , , Winning a fight might randomly drop a new card, and it’s this which is the main spur to head off into dangerous territories, further and further flung from the small dome that acts as your base. Loot! But, Rascals! As far as I can tell, the Rascals are to some extent entirely randomly-generated in threat as well as type, but it does seem as though you’re more likely to run into beefier ones if your own stats are fairly high. , The true terror of death is that you lose all your cards if you lose a fight. You’ll resurrect (unless you’re playing the one shot and done daily challenge mode) but you’ll be puny; though the initial monsters you’ll then encounter are puny too, goddamn but you’ll miss those beautiful cards you had a minute ago. A few minutes later, of course, all you care about is the new cards in your hand now. , It’s one of those games where death happens fast if you don’t exercise due diligence. You only have five hitpoints (though some cards can temporarily increase this) and it’s more than possible to lose all of these in the space of one fight. Including against embarrassingly weak foes. Avoiding this means watching the numbers carefully, and keeping a close eye on Loot Rascal’s other key mechanic, which is that it flips from day to night and back again every half-dozen turns. , , Some monsters get to attack first at night, others in the day, and attacking first is what this game is really all about. If your attack’s high enough you can often take out an enemy in one hit, while facing the occasional random miniboss (also randomly-named, as in Diablo) is no longer a guaranteed death sentence. , I’m aware I’ve spent most of this piece describing mechanics rather than offering opinions as such, and this is because that’s what Loot Rascals is underneath its gonzo, capering skin – a game of mechanics. Easy to learn, difficult to master mechanics, which you can never take your eye off. That it feels entirely like its own true-blue videogame and not like an adaptation of a CCG is testament to how cleanly all its many moving parts slots together. This is such a slick wee thing. , , There’s another neat feature somehow squeezed into this Jenga tower of ingenuity, whereby baddies rob a card from you if they beat you, and other players may then find that card by defeating bosses in their own games. And you, of course, might find their lost treasures, at which point you can decide whether to send it back to them or keep it. This has only happened to me a couple of times – I think the playerbase needs time to build up – but apparently this can result in rewards or payback, which I have not yet experienced. Probably because I die too quick. A lovely idea and one that, I suspect, will make more difference the more you invest in this. , Even so, I did feel as though I’d seen all the game was fairly early on – that it would be a matter of finessing my skills far more than it would be a voyage of discovery. While that’s true of Spelunky too, it did hook new players on the mystery of what might lie ahead, the increasing weirdness and menace of later areas, before, for some of us, becoming a ritual test of skill. See also The Binding Of Isaac, which this also has a few commonalities with. , , There’s a loose, comic story about rebuilding a big robot wrapped around the thing, but really it immediately becomes about endlessly bettering yourself. Leaderboards and daily challenges and all that jazz – long-term investment. Catnip for many people, but I don’t know that it got its hooks in deep enough to trigger that impulse in me. , Though Loot Rascals has been deeply charming for a couple of days, I can’t see myself returning to it over and over in that way. That said, the daily challenges do save it from an otherwise open-ended feel – each new area reached or mega-card found feels that much more momentous when death is absolute, rather than an inconvenience. , Funny, strange, sweet, accessible, as intricate as a Gordian knot with it. Loot Rascals is a smart piece of game design executed with delightful style. Even so, it feels as though the mechanics overwhelm all else – I do think it would benefit from offering more structure and goals in order to then earn the daily-play status it clearly desires.
I suspect that everyone who makes games wishes they’d made Spelunky. Effectively perfect game design, unconstrained by the heavy flab of spectacle. Loot Rascals [official site] takes that game’s random generation, escalating challenge, extreme balancing, minimal explaining and daily runs and applies it all to a slick, playful roguelite and collectable card game hybrid. Then slathers gloriously weird creature design all over it.
The colorful art, mascot character, and unique premise of using voodoo dolls is an alluring facade that seduces you in, but its charm is left at the door. Or at least I wish it did. The premise and exposition is all rushed in the first three minutes like a dishonest husband trying to change the subject when asked about what he was doing until 3:00am. It goes by so fast I could only reiterate what Vince himself says: "Um...okay.", Basically, a woman named Madam Charmaine runs a voodoo shop and owns magical Zombie Dust that the main antagonist, Kosmo the Inscrutable, wants and finally manages to steal thanks to his goons. The Zombie Dust isn't really explained but meant to be understood as a source of power the yet-unseen bad guy wants for no real reason. There is no further plot development until the end of the game, just occasional cutscenes of Vince and Kosmo, who looks like Sheen from Jimmy Neutron, tossing dated and unfunny (even in 2003) insults at each other. Other characters appear in a single level and have no bearing on the overall plot, serving as mere quest givers and targets of Vince's impotent vocal jabs., Not all games need to have developing narratives or complex character development, but when it's as bare as this, there is no foundation on which to establish character traits and from which to deviate from for humorous effect. Psychonauts has a very simple plot and one-note characters, but they are defined enough that their interactions are like that of aluminium and bromine, whereas Voodoo Vince's characters react like water and oil. Instead of comedy derived from each characters' inherent nature, we get surface-level breath insults and literal toilet humor., The aesthetic of Voodoo Vince is its strongest point, including a fantastic remastering job. Vince himself looks great and he fits in the colorful world quite nicely. Playing this game in 1080p at 60fps sometimes made me forget it was released in the same year as 2 Fast 2 Furious. Most of the enemy designs are bland, but I do like the redneck alligators and the "yiiip" sound they make, even if it perhaps too easy a design., , Considering masterful sound design and thematic music were critical in making games like Super Mario 64 and Banjo Kazooie so engaging, I had higher expectations than I realized for Voodoo Vince. While the voice acting is actually pretty good, you forget about it since the writing and humor are so poor. The soundtrack, however, was unexpectedly dull. When you visit locations like a carnival, a Louisiana swamp, and a haunted house, you would imagine some catchy music would accompany the levels to help sell the atmosphere. Instead the music is royalty-free tier without much variation, at best sounding like it belongs in The Sims. The sounds of attacking and picking up the few collectibles lack that oomph-factor, failing to entice you to collect more like the eggs in Banjo Kazooie do., So then, with a throwaway plot and average aesthetic, we're left to rely on the gameplay alone for entertainment. At its core, Voodoo Vince is a 3D platformer with collectibles and puzzle elements. Aside from moving and jumping, you can glide to gain more distance and perform either a slap or spin attack. Pressing both of the triggers will unleash a special voodoo power, which will play a cute animation where Vince injures himself, killing all the enemies in range. Unique actions are all performed in context-sensitive locations. You can collect more voodoo powers for special animations, such as Vince pooping in an outhouse and killing enemies with his stinky green gas, but they are merely different animations that have the same function., Other collectibles are bottles of Zombie Dust which give you extra health when you collect 100 and Skull Pages which, upon collecting all in a particular level, place a pink skull on the map that you must race to collect and gain extra meter for your voodoo power. On top of mediocre collection sounds, they aren't placed in thoughtful ways that test your platforming skills, and the skull races are downright annoying., Beads dropped from regular enemies charge your voodoo powers, but you'll usually avoid confrontation due to rudimentary and boring combat. Furthermore, voodoo powers don't harm bosses, so you won't really need the extra meter. And since most of your deaths will come from falling into bottomless pits rather than from the combat you'll avoid, you won't need extra health all that much either. So why collect them? I collected them all in my 100% playthrough of the game, and there is no reward nor even any sort of acknowledgment of your achievement. Collect the new voodoo powers if you're curious to see different animations, I guess., , I harp so much on collectibles because they extend an otherwise short game and collecting them is tedious rather than challenging or fun. They distract from the strongest point of the gameplay, the okonomiyaki-style level variety. Nearly each level is unique in its goals and puzzles, which in itself is interesting and makes the whole playthrough moderately enjoyable. The problem is none of the elements are around long enough to develop or compound into interesting mechanics you use through the game. They are over as soon as you understand what they are doing, and not all of them are fun., In one level early on, you have to carry a fuel tank from the bottom of a tall chamber to the very top, using elevators and avoiding fire, which is as fun as it sounds. Any wrong move makes the tank explode, sending you back to the start or to the halfway point where you can get another. Dropping a pixel of height makes it explode, and even standing too close to the wall on an elevator will cause the tank to clip on the way down and explode. You have to get past fire that spurts out on a timer, a mechanic as old as platformers themselves. , Other levels featuring a plane to fly around obstacles and an on-rails shooter are more entertaining, but their simplicity is nothing to write home about. You'd think some of them would explore the idea of harming Vince as a means to injure enemies, since the makers thought the idea had enough potential to warrant a voodoo doll as a main character, but that element is never used in a puzzle context., Searching for what made this game get a cult following, I thought perhaps it would be clever boss battles. They are unique in appearance, but in function they are not enthralling encounters. If you believe in the idea of bosses being a test of the abilities you have learned, you'll be disappointed as you just use basic actions known from the start, since you don't develop or learn any new skills throughout the game., , Bosses do not rely on your combat ability and, as previously mentioned, cannot be harmed by voodoo powers. There is one way to attack each, and you perform that same action three times with minimal development. The bosses may walk faster or throw a bit more debris, but that's it. You clear each by finding a way to harm Vince, using the power of voodoo to transmit that injury to the boss, which you'll often forget since that idea is not explored elsewhere except in those voodoo power animations. Attacks from the boss hurt Vince, but don't in-turn hurt the boss, weirdly., What little puzzle-solving or challenge there may be in the game is often explained away as soon as the level loads. Madam Charmaine narrates the level introduction, laying out exactly what you have to do. Bosses are no exception, where she'll explain how to win but not the act of harming Vince. Some of the "puzzles" such as shooting Vince at a certain target consume a lot of time if you miss. Others that make you perform the same action multiple times are tedious even if you never mess up, such as a level where you have to platform around the entire circumference of a room to hit a switch at least three times, and then a fourth time to get to the exit just beyond the switch. , With lackluster plot, awful comedy, and shallow gameplay, I just don't see where the following comes from. Voodoo Vince should be commended for trying to add variety and humor, but ultimately the execution is not there. Perhaps harsh on a game that is no worse than mediocre, I did experience brief nuggets of bliss, but they were rare. More often than not you'll be frustrated, leading you to believe you're the real victim when Vince sticks pins into himself.
Unfortunately, some of Hitman’s other shortcomings have remained over the year-long release schedule. Diving back in, I forgot just how crippled the game is if you’re not online – lose your Internet connection while playing, and you also lose all the secondary missions, unlocked weapons and gear, bonuses challenges, and even your in-game stats. I also ran into some slow-loading texture problems, which rendered Hitman’s iconic barcode tattoo into an inky smudge for minutes at a time, along with other textures in the environment. IO Interactive continues to rely on the same small pool of voice actors for NPCs, whose lame banter about politics, economics, and philosophy will make you wish everyone was on your hit list.
They sure don't make them like this anymore, but then I'm not sure they ever made them like this, period. The new Doom from id Software is an unexpected, masterful combination of hectic old-school shooting, smartly modern design conventions, sharp wit, and a lighthearted reverence, or more accurately, irreverence, for the hallowed legacy of Doom. At least three of those items aren't things I ever expected to see in another Doom game. After eight protracted years of development at id--a time period that included an acquisition by Bethesda, the departure of some legendary founders, and a complete reboot of this game's very nature--you could forgive even the most diehard Doom fan for setting their expectations pretty low. In light of all that, it's astounding this game ended up being as good as it is, but make no mistake: this is one of the most exhilarating, amusing, satisfying shooter campaigns in years, maybe ever.
