Instead of holding his own weapons, Otus enlists one of three friends who each fire a different type of gun. Geddy uses a pistol that lets you pick off enemies at a distance. Alphonse, who you meet later, uses a powerful musket that takes a long time to reload and has a short range. In hectic fights, I frequently start with Alphonse as my opening salvo, then switch to Geddy while keeping an eye on the reload timer, which gives every fight a fluid, cyclical pace. I won’t spoil the third friend, but they grant you even more mobility at the cost of firepower.The Witness provides further evidence that video games are approaching the same degree of authorship as more traditional forms of media, in the sense that Braid players will immediately recognize this as another game made by Jonathan Blow. Both games offer devilishly, sometimes painfully tough puzzles built around detailed logic systems that you're expected to intuit and employ with next to no guidance. Both have the uncanny ability to alternately make you feel like a genius and an idiot. Both games tend toward an austere style of philosophizing that can come off as heavy handed or self-indulgent, but which nonetheless seems to flow directly from the individual consciousness of their creator. The Witness matches and then surpasses the exhilarating a-ha moments of Braid's most unconventional puzzles, while also one-upping the simple, discrete platforming levels of Blow's previous game with a sprawling world that's as impressively interconnected as it is starkly beautiful and laden with secrets. This game has been dogged by comparisons to Myst throughout its production, but the comparison is so apt that it's hard not to use that old CD-ROM standard as a starting point. The similarities are overt--again you're a nameless, wordless protagonist exploring a deserted island full of bespoke contraptions and no small amount of mystery--and also tonal, with a softly brooding atmosphere punctuated only by your footsteps and the wind. But the way you engage with the world of The Witness is more focused than Myst's legion of various levers and dials, since all of your interactions with the game come in the form of maze-like line puzzles displayed on screens dotted all over the island. Hundreds of them. There's no inventory, no physics objects to play with, no jumping or even stepping off of ledges. Just panel after panel after panel to complete as you peel back the many layers of the island's intricate secrets. But The Witness is much, much more than just a series of standalone logic puzzles packaged up in a pretty graphical wrapper. Ferreting out the nature of the many different types of puzzles that exist on the island--how their individual rule sets work and interact with one another, what effect they have on their surroundings, and in turn how their surroundings can affect them--is 100 percent of what there is for you to do in this game, and the extent to which you have to really work for many of the solutions can be exceptionally gratifying as you fumble and reason your way through the game's many hours. As such, ruining any of the surprise about how these things work would do a disservice to the people who are really going to enjoy this game, so I'll try to be vague in describing what's in here, and I'd encourage you to read and watch no more about this game than you need to decide if you're interested in playing it. The game never offers a word of explicit tutorial, instead loading you directly into the game world and turning you loose to explore and learn and solve. Most of the island's distinctive areas offer a relatively simple starting set of puzzles that "teach" you the puzzle rules that apply to that area. In practice, the game doesn't spell anything out whatsoever. You learn entirely by doing, and the sparse information you can glean from the trial and error of figuring out the starter puzzles is immediately useful in some cases--allowing you to go forth and apply what you've just learned to more complex problems and push forward in the game--but agonizingly unclear in others. In a couple of spots, after being stuck on more complex later puzzles for hours, I had to return to earlier similar puzzles and simply stare at them, asking myself questions about how they worked and what sorts of pieces they were made out of, before the lightbulb flickered on and I could progress. But the lightbulb moment is why you play this game. It's certainly possible to overthink what it is the game wants out of you--in a few instances, I eventually realized the puzzle I was trying to solve in my mind was harder than what was actually in front of me--and in general, the puzzles in each area are consistent about adhering to the theme of that area, so frequently, you just need to stop and focus your thought process. The iterative nature of the puzzle design, the way subsequent harder puzzles build on the concepts and lessons you've already absorbed--not to mention the specific, nearly hint-less environment in which I played the game--often made me realize that I was actually capable of solving harder problems than I thought I was, if I just invested a little more time, modified my approach, and focused on different concepts or details. At those moments I had to consciously stop and ask myself what I could do differently (and I could actually feel myself suppressing that impatient urge to just run to the Internet for help), which actually felt like a fun little voyage of self-discovery. Absent any sort of guide or hints, you'll have to think, a lot, to put some of this stuff together. The puzzles run a fairly even split between two distinctive styles. Many are abstract problems that operate entirely on their own self-contained logic--typically signified by various colored symbols that appear directly on the maze screen--and feel like the sort of thing you'd see on a standardized aptitude test. Then there's a more organic style of puzzle that often requires you to look and think outside of the maze's borders to the larger game world to hit on a solution. Sometimes these two types of puzzles mix and overlap. Sometimes they subvert or seemingly break their own rules. Absolutely everything about both the puzzles and your surroundings is in play, from your perspective to the lighting to the type of input method you use. You learn very quickly that you can't necessarily take any detail in this game for granted, no matter how minor it might seem. That uncertainty creates a profound mystique, a feeling that anything could happen on this strange island where the rules of reality are more than a little flexible. It's hard to convey the range of creativity in the more complex puzzles and the way they integrate into the game's world without diving into a lot of specific examples, but the range is significant. It's the kind of thing you get really excited about and desperately want to share or discuss with other people when you see and solve it. It's great stuff. The Witness didn't need to be a beautiful game for most of its important parts to work, but it sure doesn't hurt that the island is exceptionally gorgeous. The art design takes a profound less-is-more tack, building a world out of simple geometry and sparse texture mapping, and instead focusing its attention on a strong use of color and lighting to bring out a significant amount of organic detail that's too exaggerated to be called realistic, but also stops short of becoming cartoonish. This saturated, brightly lit aesthetic repeatedly brought The Wind Waker to mind, which is about as respectable a comparison as you can make in my book. The game also seems to use the trick (one that I first remember making the zones in World of Warcraft so moody) of subtly shifting the color grading as you cross the boundary between regions, so that you rapidly get the feeling you're in a different place than the one you just left. That's a handy trick to have in a relatively small land mass that jams desert, swamp, ice, mountain, jungle and forest locations all together in close proximity. And again, the visuals aren't just for show; so many of the presentational aspects play into puzzle solutions and other secrets in clever, satisfying ways. Once again I'm sitting here wondering if I should drop a couple of neat examples to illustrate the point, but no. That stuff is too much fun to discover for yourself.In light of Limbo's sparse, expressionistic art style, the way Inside's look has evolved and expanded might be the most impressive thing about it. The game's art design and presentation are subtle and cohesive even as your travels take you through disparate areas like farmlands, industrial cityscapes, underwater wreckage, and research facilities, and each of these areas advances some of the sinister images and themes you might expect, and quite a few you won't. There's a repeated emphasis on scenes of cruelty and exploitation in an industrial context that give the game a heavy, oppressive tone, and while you aren't exactly fighting any enemies as such, there are some antagonists and adversarial situations that really made my skin crawl.Even so, I enjoy how Telltale is showing different sides to every character, especially the flashback sequences to explain their motivations. Seeing more of what happened at the end of season two with Clementine is a highlight, as it clarifies why she's more hardened. Additionally, observing Javier's family get more complicated adds an extra layer of drama. Learning more about characters and watching those relationships grow is still what keeps me invested, even if I have yet to find any of my choices meaningful. As a series that continually emphasizes player decisions, this is a serious problem. This has been a persistent issue for Telltale and The Walking Dead, and I've given up hoping that it will get better. In addition, the heat-of-the-moments decisions that force you to go with your gut were mostly missing here, which is a shame because those are the most effective.The video game industry was dominated by wisecracking mascot platformers for decades. Over time, that scene dried up, with few successful franchises remaining outside of Nintendo's established stable. Yooka-Laylee is a callback to the heyday of the 3D platformer, but through modernization, polish, and a whole lot of creativity, it successfully demonstrates that the genre is far from dead.The combat system is easily the highlight, working as a solid foundation for the rest of the diverse modes. It’s a 3D action/fighting hybrid that slashes its own unique path; the warriors have a variety of different weapons, including poison-tipped spears, battleaxes, and katana, but the fundamentals are the same regardless. Your hero can hold his or her weapon in three directional positions, for either attacking or defending. Switching positions is as simple as locking onto your opponent and moving the right analog stick. Add in feints, parries, block-breakers, and unique movesets, and you have a robust melee toolset.The freedom of traversal also adapts well to combat, where Kat can use airborne kicks, slide around at high speed, and use a stasis field to lob objects (and people) at her targets. Using the stasis ability as a weapon is more viable than it was in the first game, thanks to a much-needed and generous auto-aiming cursor. Not having to worry about taking precise aim makes combat less of a hassle, but I still wish I could properly lock the camera onto enemies, since the cursor still requires you to center the camera on them, and fast enemies consistently move out of view.The big question with regards to the transition to Xbox One was with how the controls would work on a gamepad. The ease with which I built a huge, sprawling city is impressive, and a testament to how much thought the developers put into the controls. On Xbox One, each individual build menu is placed on a hotbar at the bottom of the screen, which is accessible using the d-pad. Once you select something you want to build like a road or firehouse, you easily use the left analog stick to place it.Thanks to the snap-on mechanics that already existed with Cities: Skylines, using the analog stick to connect roads, electric lines, and water pipes is simple. Of course, as with any snap-on system, the game can sometimes estimate where you are trying to place a piece incorrectly, but with the zoom functionality placed on the gamepad's triggers, it's simple and intuitive to zoom in to get extra detailed with your placement of buildings, zones, and other structures.The Double Dragon franchise was instrumental in turning brawlers into a bustling genre during the arcade era. Jimmy and Billy Lee now return decades later (once again tasked with rescuing Marian), and their journey takes them down memory lane for franchise fans with tons of foes from previous entries and a juiced-up soundtrack that brings the old tunes out with a fresh twist. If you’re looking for a title drenched in nostalgia – right down to the retro graphics and mind-numbing platforming challenges – this is one you don’t want to miss. But recalling your memories of Double Dragons long past may be more enjoyable than this new experience.Le Réprobateur is an extremely unusual piece of French multimedia IF. It is a personal favorite of mine — so odd, so unlike anything else out there — but for the past few years it has been difficult to recommend to people, because it was not only commercial, but also unreliable about installation. (At least, so reported the friends who tried to play it.) But Le Réprobateur‘s author François Coulon has just re-released it, for free, in a browser-accessible format, and now anyone can get at it. The browser version is a tiny bit less elegant here and there than the original presentation, but what you get in exchange is something that actually functions on a modern computer., The premise is — well, let me give you Coulon’s own blurb:, Paris, 1984. Gildas is a reprover, a professional hired by his patients to follow them wherever they go and silently condemn their behavior. Called for help by Magali, unable to resist compulsive shopping and French pastries on her own, he starts to fall in love with the young woman, breaking every rule…., The story imagines a role somewhere between priest and personal trainer, and asks how this person might intercept some particular characters, in an alternate 1980s France. What happens when a professional sports team hires a Reprover to keep its athletes in training? When a writer needs reproof to get past writer’s block? To glare at misbehaving lions in the circus?, Meanwhile, there is also a profession of Approvers, whose job is to run around and cheerlead anything you do: a cure for imposter syndrome, anxiety, and generalized forms of cowardice, but not, of course, without its ethical dangers. ,  , I said this was multimedia IF. Each page has several short prose passages, just a sentence or two long, describing some anecdotes from the career of Gildas or one of the other characters he meets along the way. These sentences morph when you click on them, expanding to show additional nuances or takes on what is going on. The effect is reminiscent of Twine’s text rotation functions, except that Le Réprobateur came out in 2008, before Twine had taken off, and before the creation of most of the macros that provide that functionality. , Even aside from the mechanical effect of having new phrases and adjectives pop in and out of view, the text does not read entirely naturalistically. It is translated from French, and while I am guessing that the original text adopted a humorously formal tone, the results in English are downright alien — though often still funny., In addition to the prose, each page offers three illustrations and one video snippet. The illustrations are in a cartoonish or graphic novel style, but despite their size, are crowded with supporting detail, often further explaining what is happening in the text., Then, each video snippet shows Gildas the reprover speaking to camera in French, occupying a role between narrator and character. He speaks slowly and clearly, so that those of us with somewhat less-than-fluent French have plenty of time to match his utterances with the subtitles. He belongs to the school of acting that emotes with its eyebrows. (In this school he is a fellow student of Emma Watson. You can ruin all the Harry Potter movies just by watching for Hermione’s eyebrow acrobatics. You’re welcome.) In these videos, he is quite likely to be doing his calisthenics or sipping a green cocktail in the bath, as if you were receiving his candid input in the moment that he had these particular thoughts., And on top of all of these, there is a four-part soundtrack, which you can activate partly or fully, so that you’re hearing just a basic track or additional elements on top. Or silence. Whichever you choose., There are twenty pages in total, and you can navigate between them either by clicking on one of the page’s three illustrations, or by zooming out to a 3D view, which maps the entire story onto the surface of a D20. You can then rotate the D20 and decide which face to look at next. , , Either way, the structure encourages you to think about the thematic links between the story on one page and the story on the next. , This may all sound both stilted and needlessly complex. In practice, it’s pretty easy to get the hang of after a few pages. As for the style, that never becomes less strange, but it does grow on you: or at least, it grew on me, as an expression of a subversive humor that never takes itself seriously, always attentive to the foibles of the main characters. It is also, at least from the perspective of other IF, almost entirely sui generis: part social satire, part literary short story, beholden to none of the usual IF or hypertext tropes and conceits, and not even apparently aware of their existence. This made it refreshing in 2008, and it still feels so now., What emerges from both the story and the mechanic is an idea of nearly infinite layering and differences of perspective. Le Réprobateur is constantly showing you its characters’ different views on what is going on. You, the reader, are constantly revisiting and morphing the prose and the music, or choosing to juxtapose this pair of pages. , Within the fiction, the existence of Approvers and Reprovers suggests that absolutely any act could, with the right framing and in the hands of the proper professional, be considered laudable or the reverse. Moreover (the story suggests), our ability to show discipline or self-restraint is very socially dependent, conditioned on the feedback that we’re receiving at the time., , Considering all this, it’s probably appropriate that the player has no diegetic agency at all. You can’t change the story. All the texts, images, and videos are written in advance and may be experienced in any order. But your personal exploration of the space is a unique journey. The story begins on a different page whenever you restart it, as though rolling the giant D20 on which the pages are inscribed., If you do like this piece, Coulon has also created a series called Prise Multiple, a set of video compositions offering multiple views on the same scenarios., I should add a word of warning: there are characters in the story, if not the author himself, who express some racist perspectives. I had forgotten that fact until replaying; it was an unpleasant jolt to the system, even when couched in the perspective of a man otherwise represented as rather hidebound in several respects.In a very DLC sort of way, Gladiolus steps away from the core party in Final Fantasy XV proper for a bit (during Chapter 7) -- that's where this episode takes place., It's the Gladiolus show, yes indeed, and all of his raw combat power is showcased in this add-on that sees him undertaking a trial to beef up for Noctis. Strangely, Cor Leonis, someone who was barely touched upon in the campaign is here, and earns his place -- but only just a little. He's one of the most fearsome members of the military sworn to King Regis, but he takes a backseat here to the main bro. His inclusion merely serves as a light level of exposition and feels like a missed opportunity to delve further into life in the kingdom of Lucis, something that's glossed over in favor of giving us a reason to watch the Kingsglaive movie., While it's easy to forgive some of the omissions as the story is easy enough to piece together, this would have been the perfect opportunity to push the lore a little more -- as it stands, the free anime episode is more enlightening than this paid DLC., , In fact, clocking in at roughly an hour or two (if you do everything), there isn't much room for anything outside of a slight twist on the already fun combat system. Gladiolus is a little slower than what you're used to, but he does have the gamey rage meter that lets him charge up and unleash new abilities after getting hit or dealing damage. You're basically going to be blocking more than dodging and counter-attacking, which to its credit, does differentiate DLC Gladiolus from playing as Noctis. Pulling giant columns out of the ground and using them to bludgeon enemies to death is also a hilarious touch that meshes with the strongman theme., That cool nuanced combat alteration (which will no doubt spread over into the other characters' DLCs) stops there. Episode Gladiolus is basically a dungeon you'd wander into on the open map, and almost feels like a loose collection of challenge rooms. A comparison Square Enix saw fit to address itself, as it even has a score attack mode that skips cutscenes and turns the whole affair into a speedrun-like deal. Bang bang, slash slash, fight [a more serious rendition of] Gilgamesh, and you're done. As previously mentioned, you do get a shirtless Gladiolus outfit that carries over into the main game, which is a cool little bonus., As someone who absolutely loved every member of the bro-trip party, I was hoping for a little bit more from the first major round of Final Fantasy XV DLC. The game has already received a ton of fantastic free updates, but so far the "Episode" format seems to be something all of us should enjoy in the Game of the Year edition, and not piecemeal., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher. You can access the DLC from the main menu as a separate episode.], Final Fantasy XV: Episode Gladiolus reviewed by Chris Carter, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Hollow from the other side, I must have died a thousand times, I got my Nintendo Switch day one and I've put around 10 hours into The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, the latest game from my favorite series. Not because I don't love it, but because I've been obsessed with Hollow Knight. It is that damned good., In a year that has been absolutely filled to the brim with great games, I can say Hollow Knight is hands down without a doubt in my mind my favorite and surely an early contender for game of the year., , You can play each of the five sports in exhibition or tournament. Exhibition allows you to customize your experience by tweaking some of the rules to your liking for one-off matches, while tournament lines you up against three consecutive opponents in a bracket-style tournament with standardized rules. You can also take the competition online, which works well if you can find players - splitting the player-base between five modes with custom search parameters seems to have hindered the pool of competitors in matchmaking.If you’ve played BoxBoy! or BoxBoxBoy!, congratulations, you already know the basics to Bye-Bye BoxBoy! Nothing has changed with the basic formula. You’re still controlling Qbby, a jubilant box with legs, to generate a single string of boxes that help him make his way through the three or four puzzles each level holds. These boxes can act as platforms to guide him safely over spikes or death pits, shields against electricity, or help Qbby reach places his stubby little jump can’t., So long as you remember which button does what, you’ll have no problem mastering Bye-Bye BoxBoy!’s mechanics. I had played through the original game just before downloading this, so it was all second nature to me. While the opening set of puzzles didn’t do anything I hadn’t already seen in BoxBoy!, new hazards like water and wind mix things up, forcing me to pause, think, and create some eclectic chains of boxes in order to proceed. , Those puzzles were entertaining, but what really got me into the game was the Qbabies. Each of the first three planets house one of these little box kids in dire need of a good rescuing. Qbby saves them in a series of escort mission levels that, like every other level in the game, are short, sweet, and simple to grasp. As he proceeds, the Qbaby will either follow directly behind or be separated below him, requiring Qbby to drop down the appropriate box shape for them to proceed., , Once the Qbabies are safe and sound, they grant new abilities. These skills, which allow Qbby to create boxes that rocket upward, blow up parts of the map, warp him past obstacles, and make a chain he can snake around the course, are fun to experiment with and really elevate the game. It just sucks the use of these power-ups is extremely limited, only accessible in a handful of puzzles. They never overstay their welcome, but I also don’t believe I saw the full potential for any of them in their brief appearance. As was my experience with BoxBoy!, Bye-Bye BoxBoy! is very easy and I was never really challenged until accessing the bonus worlds. Even collecting all of the optional crowns in each level, something you must do before you generate a certain number of boxes, was a cinch. , Outside of the journey, you can use earned coins to purchase new costumes, music, challenges, and comics, the last of which I found to be downright adorable. If you own either of the previous games, some of the costumes collected in those will transfer over including the incredibly useful bunny ears. You can also use Kirby series amiibo, or Kirby characters from the Smash line, to unlock cool-looking color costumes modeled after the pink puff and friends. The amiibo screen also has a slot for the Qbby figure which I hope is an indication that we’ll be seeing it here in the west and not simply something they forgot to remove in translation. , Bye-Bye BoxBoy! is being billed as the last of the BoxBoy! trilogy and if this is where things truly end I think that’s for the better. Qbby is great and this monochrome world is wonderful, but I feel as though its basic puzzle formula is on the cusp of getting stale. If we do see more of this boxed boy, I hope his next adventure is something more substantial., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Bye-Bye BoxBoy! reviewed by CJ Andriessen, A solid game that definitely has an audience. Might lack replay value, could be too short or there are some hard-to-ignore faults, but the experience is fun.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , The best time I've had hookin' since college, One part ghost, one part pirate, one part bounty hunter, one part hooker. No, I'm not talking about your grandma, but the protagonist of Flinthook, a game that had me 'hooked' from the start., Sorry. I had to.Surviving in the world serves as an important build-up to the ultimate goal, which is defined early on: Defeat Ganon. In Breath of the Wild, Link is not trying to prevent the villain’s resurrection. Ganon is there the moment Link wakes, visible in the distance. His evil presence is clear from nearly every vantage point on the map as a disturbing, glowing evil and it has a tangible effect on the world. I felt it at every moment, whether it was by seeing Ganon in the distance or by talking to Hyrulians living under his oppression. Seeing the goal from the moment I started the game also made my final sprint to defeat Ganon hugely rewarding. When I finally decided I was ready to face Ganon, it felt like the culmination of a lifetime of preparation that ended with a hugely satisfying finale.Breath of the Wild is more than just a world of beautiful scenery. It’s full of puzzle shrines, dungeons, and surprises. The main dungeons are smaller than those in previous Zeldas, but benefit from the compact design by never overstaying their welcome. Link takes control of each of the dungeons, rotating them to solve puzzles, or manipulating their large components to open new paths. Defeating their challenging bosses offers worthwhile rewards that affect facets of exploration and combat in exciting ways, like the ability to perform an extra powerful attack in times of need. Any disappointment that may have resulted from the main dungeons being smaller affairs is cleanly washed away thanks to the myriad shrines.Gears of War 4 is The Coalition's first full, new Gears of War game. And it feels like a good mix of old and new, capturing the characters and gameplay moments that made the series feel so impactful in the first place while advancing a new set of characters, a new, well-justified story, and the sort of multiplayer options you'd expect to see. It might not reinvent the gear, but it goes a long way to making the franchise feel alive in a way it hasn't since 2011. If nothing else, it's left me wanting to see more from the franchise and the team behind it.Your first order of business is to visit four mini-dungeons so that you can acquire four runes. These runes grant you the ability to create remote bombs, manipulate magnetic objects, stop time, and create pillars of ice in pools of water. Once you’ve proven that you know how to wield these powers, you’re given a paraglider that allows you to leave the opening plateau and experience the rest of Hyrule.And then, again, there's the lack of story, and the feeling that huge chunks of it are just missing, as the game grinds on. By the time you get to that final dungeon, something like a fifth of the game's total landmass will remain completely untouched; it's purely there for you to go poke around in, looking for cores, at the end. A couple of the cutscenes are so shoddily put together, with disjointed scene transitions and rushed exposition and some really ugly FMV, that I found myself confused as to what had just happened after they were over. Almost all of the actually interesting storytelling is relegated to audio logs and text notes, which actually give you some background on the architects of the terraforming project and what may have gone wrong. But those plot elements feel like they were written to serve a much grander storyline that just isn't here at all. Once you finally reach the final boss fight (which is just a retread of a fight you fought hours earlier), you're treated to one of the most slapped-together jokes of an ending I've ever seen in a game. After one briefly heartfelt dialogue sequence that doesn't actually address any of the open questions of the plot, you get a couple of what feel like placeholder cutscenes that were shoved into the ending, and then you're wordlessly dumped back to the title screen without even a credits roll. I won't pretend to know what did or didn't happen in the course of this game's development, but between the bugs and the lack of storytelling, it's hard not to feel like this thing needed quite a bit more time in the oven.You have 10 different perks to choose from, each of which is tailored to a specific way of playing. Support characters excel at using shotguns and other medium-ranged weapons, and they can also give their squadmates some extra ammo once per wave. If you prefer more distance between you and those shambling piles of rotten flesh, you might consider the sharpshooter. I gravitate toward support classes, so I spent the bulk of my time with the field medic. Even though it’s geared toward healing teammates, I found it the class to be a lethal partner in battle. Healing grenades release a cloud of vapor that restores allies who walk into it, while causing damage to the undead. Playing with a well-balanced group of six is a lot of fun, as is seeing how the various roles complement one another. Going solo isn’t quite as engaging, but it’s still an enjoyable option if you can’t round up a group.The same however cannot be said for the puzzles. As is often the case with older point-and-click adventures, Full Throttle’s puzzles are bearable at best and frustrating at worst. Only two segments were frustrating to the point that I had to consult a guide on how to solve them, and they feel odd just for the sake of being odd, requiring me to obtain strange objects to use in unexpected places to progress. As annoying as these sections could be, they were brief enough that they didn’t hinder my experience much. Part of the relief stems from the fact that Full Throttle Remastered also has a hint functionality that you can use to light up objects you can interact with in the environment, which often saved me from pixel-hunting for solutions.A horn sounds in the distance, signaling that our army is at its breaking point. I look down at the grassy field from the relative safety of a crumbling wall. One of my comrades is clashing with a knight, doing his best to block the unrelenting swings of his opponent’s morning star. Two of the knight’s allies come, and it’s three against one. I could run down and help, but even then we’d be outnumbered. Instead, I call in a volley of arrows. The projectiles rain down on our enemies, slaughtering them in seconds. Our ragged forces regroup, and we manage to narrowly pull a victory from what seemed like an inevitable loss. At its best, For Honor lets you live out the fantasies you had as a kid, where every stick was a blade and your backyard was a roiling battleground waiting for your swordsmanship to save the day.The Zombies mode takes many of the same features of the film-noir undead romp of Black Ops 3, tones down the difficulty a bit, and offers players more substantial upgrades to take from game to game. The journey now takes place in an amusement park and is infused with ‘80s music, characters, and secrets. David Hasselhoff as the mysterious DJ, killer exploding clowns, and tracks from bands like R.E.M and Blondie make this mode feel like a unique experience despite implementing many of the mechanics from Black Ops 3. Zombies is a fun, nostalgia-laden co-op experience that’s accessible without needing a hardcore team to make steady progress.This edition includes the After Dark expansion, which adds new specializations, transportation options, a day/night cycle, and more to the base game. Unfortunately, this package does not include the other expansions that have come to PC, like Snowfall and Natural Disasters, which is a major missed opportunity for this to be considered the definitive version.Disregarding the new controls and revamped menu system, this is largely the game that garnered so much acclaim in 2015. Starting with a small, single-road town and building up to a bustling metropolis is just as addictive as ever. I love selecting the perfect plot of land and trying to plan my roads, electrical infrastructure, and sewage systems efficiently from the start. Watching your city steadily grow as you stave off bankruptcy and other unexpected hardships is still as satisfying as gaming accomplishments come.For Honor’s battles can be great, but you also have to contend with the online infrastructure. In its current state, I experienced frequent disconnects and other networking issues. Players would vanish before my eyes, and the action would stutter as it replaced the missing person with an admittedly competent bot. That this happens at all is disconcerting, and more so when the screen hitches as an enemy sword is swinging at your face. Sometimes these disconnects also shatter online parties, requiring you to send another wave of invites. Ubisoft has big plans for For Honor in the months ahead, with a faction-based metagame, evolving stages, and additional characters to join the war. Hopefully, addressing these technical issues is even higher on the list of priorities, because they undermine an otherwise memorable experience.   As for the action, fights are losing their luster. I can only tap so many buttons to kill a string of zombies before it all starts to blend together. Telltale has tried to alleviate this by adding some different mechanics to ratchet up the intensity. For instance, as your group is fighting off a swarm from breaking through a gate, you must secure a safe place. In another scene, when you finally confront an awful person, you can choose how many times you want to hit them to illustrate your anger. Telltale has done this in the past, but putting justice in your hands feels more satisfying.The original Gravity Rush had a spectacular freedom of movement, and the sequel builds on that foundation by rounding out a few rough edges and offering larger, more diverse spaces. Estranged from her makeshift home, Kat contends with an entirely new set of people and floating cities, and both make the world of Gravity Rush feel lively (though you need to have played the first game to understand the later parts of the story). The short dialogue sequences do a great job of characterizing Lisa (who takes Kat in) and her band of miners. Similarly, the Jirga Para Lhao marketplace’s people, stores, and flying cars make it feel lived in. Visually, these environments are a joy to zip around, and a few missions take you to more abstract, surreal, and colorful locales that seem pulled from the covers of math textbooks.There's a conundrum with making a game based on a show that points out bad design choices in other games. Do you make it fun to play while discussing the things that other titles do wrong? Or do you make it poorly designed on purpose in order to highlight those issues for the player? With AVGN Adventures and its sequel, they sort of took the middle ground with an adequately designed platformer that also purposely throws in problematic elements, and I'm not sure how effective it is., Enemy placement is meant to be frustrating, powerups are placed in unfortunate areas rendering them virtually useless, and blocks and traps that can kill in one hit are used in overabundance. These things were no doubt done on purpose to emulate the games that the Nerd likes to yell about, but they're still not particularly fun. Most levels are reduced to a frenzied race to the next checkpoint in order to stay alive., , The plot is simple enough. Alien forces turn everyone in the world into pixelated monsters. Only the Nerd is spared, who wakes up in his room and embarks on a quest to collect the six pieces of the Sexforce (perhaps a cleverer joke than I first thought). Along the way, he'll constantly be running into his nemesis, the Nostalgia Critic, along with familiar faces from the web series like Board James and the Nerdy Turd., The map is laid out like the Super Mario Bros. 3 overworld. The player can visit one of five areas, each containing three levels plus a boss fight. These include a Japanese-themed shoot 'em up stage, an homage to the electric seaweed level from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, a Ghouls 'n Ghosts-ish horror area, a board game world, and an area inspired by Angry Video Game Nerd: The Movie. There's also a bonus Virtual Boy level before the final boss. Overall, it will take most players about two to three hours to complete., Individual stages try to vary up the gameplay with new mechanics, like shoot 'em up sections, driving segments, Portal-esque warping, and more. But for the most part, it's a standard platformer, often with hordes of enemies ready to strike from every direction and one-hit-kill death blocks aplenty. The death blocks seemed to be a common complaint about the first game, and the trailer promises there are less of them this time around, but I'm not so sure that's an accurate statement. They are everywhere., Once again, the Nerd is armed with his trusty NES Zapper to fight off enemies, who explode in a mess of blood and guts when killed. This time around, there are no unlockable characters. Instead, the Nerd can collect his stuff which has been scattered all over the place, like the Power Glove and the Super Scope. These act as upgrades to make him more powerful and grant new abilities., , There are also a few temporary powerup items, but they're mostly useless. The bouncy balls are basically a joke item, and the badge that upgrades the Zapper is really only useful in a few situations. The f-bombs are handy for taking out powerful foes, but the weird placement of f-bombs within each stage meant that I very rarely was able to actually use them. The only reliable powerup is the beer keg, which fully restores health., Some of the boss fights were interesting, like the one at the end of Monster Madness (the Ghouls 'n Ghosts inspired area) which had multiple forms covering the gamut of stereotypical Halloween monsters. Others were simply an exercise in frustration, particularly the boss of the Japanese area that takes place upon treadmills. The mid-bosses, which include the Nostalgia Critic, Board James, and Nerdy Turd, all play out exactly the same. They're essentially the Protoman fights from Mega Man, just running back and forth shooting at each other until someone wins. The final boss was also surprisingly easy., As far as the jokes go, they got a couple chuckles out of me. Standout goofs included the introduction of the tanuki (giant tanuki balls will get me every time!) and the end of the Monster Madness boss fight, which was probably my favorite moment. Other than that, the humor mostly revolved around excessive swearing and poop jokes, with the occasional mocking of terrible mechanics, so if that kind of stuff is your jam then you'll probably get a kick out of it., For the sequel, they decided to forgo the elaborate curse word generator after every death in favor of an expletive-rich one-liner spouted by the Nerd at the end of each level. This means reloading after dying happens much quicker, which is nice. The one-liners are often rather predictable though (the sewer levels are literally shitty, we get it). Interestingly, the only levels he didn't have one-liners for were some of the Monster Madness stages, probably because they were actually great and he knew it., , The critique of retro mechanics is the thing I was anticipating the most as I started playing, since the web series hinges on that very concept. There were a few clever moments, like when he points out a block-sized pit that he can simply run over, questioning why it's even there at all. I would have enjoyed seeing more stuff like this., Other such moments fall flat when he decides to mock mechanics that are actually pretty cool. For example, the Monster Madness area starts out entirely in black and white with a grainy filter, with later levels incorporating a color-changing mechanic to reveal new platforms. I thought it was a neat idea, but the Nerd firmly disagreed, exclaiming, “What kind of stupid game has a color button?” There's also a level with gravity-flipping mechanics that seem to be taken directly from VVVVVV, to which he complains, “The gravity flips every time I jump? What is this bullshit?” Well, Nerd, it's called VVVVVV and it's awesome! Maybe these were references to other games of lesser quality that I never played, but I kept wondering why they weren't making fun of actually bad design decisions and instead chose to mock things that worked., While I've talked extensively about the things that didn't quite do it for me, I will say this: if you enjoyed the first game, or if you're a diehard fan of the web series or the movie, you will more than likely appreciate this sequel. For everyone else, including those like me with only a passing interest in the web series, it's a very hit-or-miss experience. If you enjoy potty humor and language filled with more “fucks” and “shits” than you can shake a stick at, then Angry Video Game Nerd II is definitely for you. If not, then I might suggest looking elsewhere to get your platforming fix, because while the actual gameplay is decent once all the humor has been removed from the equation, it's still not the greatest., At least it's not a shitload of fuck. The trailer got that part right anyway., Angry Video Game Nerd II: ASSimilation reviewed by Ben Davis, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Here comes a new challenger! , "Smash clone" is an ugly generalization. It's usually given to titles in a subgenre which, honestly, should be a lot more prominent than it is. Despite many tries, non-Nintendo developers have yet to nail the platform fighter. What most of these developers fail to realize is beneath Super Smash Bros.' mascot appeal lies a base appealing to both casual party goers and more dedicated players. , Rivals of Aether is going to mean more to the latter. Welcoming comparisons to the aforementioned Super Smash Bros. (even going so far as to challenge it in some areas), Rivals of Aether is a platform fighter stripping away most of Smash Bros' zanier elements while focusing on a stronger, speedier, brutal core.Within the brief campaign, content offerings are sparse and consist mainly of tougher difficulty encounters or a challenge mode – simple, barebones stuff with graphics that don’t really live up to today’s standards. While the visuals are functional and crisp, they don’t need to be as blast-from-the-past as the rest of the title.While The Sexy Brutale’s masks act as permanent upgrades, some tools are fleeting. Every time you rewind time and start the day over, you lose any items you’ve collected up to that point, which means that you have to go back through the mansion and re-collect any items you need to solve certain puzzle, which is a hassle.Even if the campaign’s conspiracy feels a little rote, Willamette is the best playground that’s been offered yet. It has everything you’d expect to find in a small town, from quirky shops to hardware store and homes – and the all-new Willamette Memorial Megaplex mall. Best of all, it’s easy to navigate. Unlike Dead Rising 3’s network of blocked-off freeways, the roads are clear – zombie hordes notwithstanding – and you can circle the map without leaving your car. You want to get out to explore the various shops and interior spaces, though. Dozens of weapon blueprints and other collectibles are hidden within the well-detailed environments, and you can do so at your leisure.Flinthook (PC [reviewed], PS4, Xbox One)Developer: Tribute GamesPublisher: Tribute GamesReleased: April 18, 2017MSRP: $14.99, On paper, Flinthook sounds like a formula that has been done to death (at least on Steam): a rogue-lite platformer with pixelated graphics and randomly generated maps. However, execution is everything, and Tribute Games has mostly nailed it from the wonderful intro laced with one of the most exciting chiptunes I've heard, to the long and difficult final bounty. , So check it: you're Mister Flinthook, a ghost that possesses a humanoid form which dawns an anchor that is used as a grappling hook. You're also a space pirate, which makes sense as each map is a different ship you board by blasting through on the giant anchor that your ship uses to propel itself through space. While I'm not quite sure what your end goal is, you set out to fulfill bounties by tracking down four different fugitives, each requiring you complete more ships than the last., Captain Flinthook is armed with a basic gun that shoots plasma balls in any direction around himself, and a grappling anchor that can also be used in any direction. While the game is fully playable with a controller, movement and aim are mapped to the left stick with seemingly no way to change it. This is in contrast to playing with a keyboard and mouse where the mouse controls your aim independent of the direction of your movement. That said, both control schemes are serviceable, though being able to aim with the right stick would have been appreciated and made the two options feel a bit more on par. You can also momentarily slow down time, which is useful when there are many enemies and bullets to avoid. Apparently, there is also an evade button, according to the game's options menu, but I couldn't seem to get it to do anything on either control method. Weird., Regardless of control discrepancies, I found the control scheme easy to pick up, and natural. The hook can be used to quickly move around via latching onto golden rings strewn about each room. Many times the use of these rings isn't optional as entire rooms will have no safe points to stand, but no worries, there are no one-hit kills in this game and health can be extended over time. , , Health isn't the only thing that can be upgraded; your gun, hook, movement speed, and various consumable sub weapons can be as well. Upgrades are found in chests and on ship shops using gold, unlocked via packs earned by leveling your character from gold, or purchased from the black market on the main menu via special black market coins found in chests throughout each map. Upgrades come in the form of equippable perks of which you can only use so many at a time based on the number of points you have unlocked to do so. You can also buy more perk points in the black market. While there are a ton of different perks to unlock, I never found many of them all that useful aside from having my bullets go a bit further and extra health., Flinthook isn't particularly difficult, but that could be thanks to me putting nearly all of my perk points towards health when available. During the last bounty, I believe I was able to be hit close to 20 times before dying. But without taking my health addiction into consideration, I found most of the enemies pushovers. Heck, most of the ones you find on the first bounty simply float in the air not attacking, and die in one hit, which isn't a great impression to start out with. Thankfully the further you go on the harder the game gets as it introduces stronger and more difficult enemies. The bosses are where the real challenge lies, but the game makes sure you're ready for them since they each have attacks that are similar to lesser enemies found throughout the ships that proceed them. , The flow of the game is pretty simple: choose a bounty of the four unlockable, complete the required number of ships, fight the boss. Each ship acts as its own randomly generated standalone map. These maps are made up of shops, obstacles, rewards, secrets, and rooms where you're locked in until you kill all the enemies that spawn, awarding you a chest accompanied by a pleasant sound effect; a small touch that makes getting them rewarding till the end. Chests mostly contain gold to spend at shops on board or food to heal you, and they can also be found tucked away behind spikes and other obstacles in certain rooms, just begging you to try to get them., , The actual maps themselves are mostly laid out in a sort of linear way in that there is one path to the end with side rooms that are shops or chest rooms. Once I figured this out I'd step through doorways in each direction off of each room to see what kind of room it was, as most of the time if it had another exit, it meant it was the path to the end. If not, it probably had a chest or shop in it. This process wasn't exactly fun, but more so tedious, since it otherwise meant backtracking through each ship to check rooms I'd passed by, although I'm not sure how it could have been designed better. I suppose I preferred that to the ships with the labyrinth modifier that meant there was no obvious direct patch to the end., Between each ship, you're given a selection to choose from, each marked with different modifiers. Modifiers include things like the aforementioned labyrinth layout, but also infestations of certain enemies, low gravity, curses, and the kinds of shops or collectible items you'll find on board. There are a couple different collectible items to find, pages that give you the lore behind an item or character, and relics which appear to serve no purpose, although I'm sure there is some hidden meaning behind them., As far as lore and story goes, there isn't a lot here, at least on the surface. No new story is revealed between levels aside from the intro of the game, the intro of the final bounty, and the ending. The lore pages, while interesting, do little more than give you background on characters and locations. Of course, I'm missing a majority of both lore and relics, so perhaps there is more to it than I'm seeing after ranking up to level 41 after 13 hours of gameplay, which was how long I needed to finally complete all the vanilla levels one time., I say "vanilla" levels because hard versions are unlockable from the black market, which probably offer the challenge I wish the rest of the game had. Unfortunately, these harder variations cost a lot of black market coins, meaning you'll have to grind the easier levels to buy them. That seems counter-intuitive, in that it may burn out the more skilled players before they ever even unlock them. As a rogue-lite with randomly generated maps made up of what is most likely hundreds of different room selections, I don't see enough variety for most people to want to keep playing after they finish the final bounty. While I thoroughly enjoyed my time with Flinthook, I just don't see a reason to play more, personally. Those wanting to figure out more lore or unlock every item and perk will get a bit more mileage than my 13 hours., , Aside from gameplay, I love this soundtrack. Tracks match the tone and settings perfectly and reminded me a great deal of Danny Baranowsky's work for Crypt of the NecroDancer. I was actually surprised that it wasn't him behind this score, which should be a huge compliment to Flinthook's composer as I consider Danny one of the best. I especially loved the game's intro theme and the tutorial level that sounds exactly what I'd picture a space pirate's life should sound like. Also like Crypt of the NecroDancer, the shops each have their own tunes that are just delightful, although they lack any vocal tracks., This is going to sound stupid, but I think my favorite part of Flinthook is breaking stuff. Each ship is littered with bottles, boxes, and other breakable materials that almost always contain gold when shot and destroyed. I've always loved breaking stuff in games, ever since the light gun game Area 51 let me do so. I guess you could say I'm the Fred Durst of video games...because I like breaking stuff. Get it? I'm all about that he said, she said bullshit., Flinthook is a fine video game that sunk its hooks into me with easy to pick up and play gameplay, a catchy soundtrack, and cute characters. It's easily a recommendable rogue-lite for any fans of the genre or platformers in general. Just don't expect the game to anchor you to your seat unless you're the kind of person that needs to uncover every piece of treasure possible. Even if you aren't, Flinthook is a dandy game, in space. , [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Flinthook reviewed by Jed Whitaker, Impressive effort with a few noticeable problems holding it back. Won't astound everyone, but is worth most people's time and cash.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , An admirable throwback RPG, These days, it's unusual for me to actively seek out role-playing games. The allure of embarking on a grand adventure is still strong as ever, and I love assembling and growing attached to a crew of characters, but the sheer time commitment can prove insurmountable. With that in mind, it makes sense that Shiness -- an action-RPG funded partially through Kickstarter -- was able to draw me in., For one, the game isn't too terribly long. I was able to hit the end credits in something like 15 hours, spread over a week, and I've since come back to suss out more of the lore-dense world. During a busy release schedule like the one we're currently knee deep in, that's about the ideal length., The other major thing going for Shiness? Combat. It takes an arena fighting game approach, enabling you (and also your foes) to perform combos, block, parry, cast spells, and even tag in teammates. As someone who tends to grow tired of less active RPGs, that design choice was an absolute godsend.The first thing I noticed is human character models and their animations have been dramatically improved. The Pokémon feel mostly unchanged, but the way your character and other NPCs move is significantly better. Grid movement is finally dead, and I couldn’t be happier. Animation improvements even help in storytelling. The narrative delivers familiar messages of kinship and working with your Pokémon friends, but it does hide a few surprises, as well as mysteries extending beyond the credits that are worth exploring.I don't expect that sense of wonder will hold for everyone. There's a good chance that your immersion in No Man's Sky will be broken far sooner than mine. You may find yourself deeply bored of the game's loop once you've seen all the varieties of animal and plant and rock that the game recycles across its universe. You may tire of the frequent bugs and crashes that, while sure to be patched down the road, nonetheless distract quite a bit from the current version of the game. Maybe you've already decided not to jump into No Man's Sky at all because, in numerous ways, it's never quite manages to live up to its original promise, imagined or otherwise.The solid gameplay from the reboot receives a few tweaks in the sequel, and not all of them for the better. The first game was a straightforward, corridor game focused on killing a bunch of bad guys with swords and guns. The simple but fun formula worked. The second game expands its size, presenting the player with various zones they can explore to complete side quests to earn weapons and money to buy upgrades. A leveling system also lets players earn skill points to give Lo Wang new powers or upgrade existing stats, like health or how many rounds of ammo he can hold. However, these additions’ effects are incremental at best – mere distractions that force you to navigate a series of menus so you can drop points into categories you probably won’t really care about.Like Sticker Star, combat is regulated by single-use cards that Mario can buy or find in the environment. Since there isn’t any kind of infinite base level attack that can be pulled out at any point, I was frequently required to waste powerful cards on enemies that were already near death. This system can back you into a corner. If you’ve run out of hammers and all you have are a bunch of jump cards, good luck trying to take out that Shy Guy with a spiked helmet on his head.Berseria focuses on Velvet, a woman who has seen her share of tragedy. One devastating event sends her over the edge, beginning a deadly quest for revenge. The opening is powerful and grim, illustrating why Velvet turned into the hardened person that she is. She's not your typical Tales protagonist full of good deeds; she just wants vengeance, and most of the time she's downright cruel and cold in the process. I found this refreshing, because even when Velvet is at her worst, I still felt for her due to how well the game set up her backstory. Berseria has a lot of twists that I won't spoil, but Velvet meets other misfits and they uncover corruption as their world is overrun by demons.Owlboy brims with an unbridled earnestness I can’t help but root for. Its characters are unflinching optimists, always looking for silver linings and the next course of action, even in the face of tragedy. The line between good and evil is crystal clear, being selfish or mean is looked down upon, and the story's tone tends to match that of a great children’s film. It also happens to be one of the most well-paced, clever, and fun games of the year.There's a good variety to the included modes in Titanfall 2, even though the co-op-focused Frontier Defense mode or some other, similar cooperative experience didn't make the transition over from the previous game. It's got a smattering of objective-based modes and a handful that simply focus on being good at shooting down enemies. The catch is that most of these modes don't have any AI combatants in them. That might seem like a weird thing to miss, but having some fodder in the maps gives you something to do as you're running back to the conflict after a respawn. Considering the maps are large enough to contain a full set of on-foot pilots and titans at the same time, sometimes you find yourself running a little longer than you'd like just to see another player. So that lack of AI--the game's Attrition mode still has them in place--ends up making those maps occasionally feel empty and a bit lifeless.It's a neat idea that's maybe a little too easily managed, given how volatile some of these personalities can be. I got through Mafia's campaign without having to fight any of my allies, and only once feeling like I was even close to that happening. It's a shame, because it's a good example of the way Mafia III tries to make the things you do in the game have some weight beyond the act of killing. It also makes the upgrade trees associated with those characters feel kind of moot, since keeping them all happy ensures that you'll never unlock any one tree to its full extent. Most of the benefits you'd want are unlocked early on, but that just makes the higher tier benefits seem superfluous.I really enjoyed much of my time with Tom Clancy's The Division, but I don't think it's a particularly great game. On paper, The Division is precisely the Ubisoft open-world template, where the side tasks are somehow even more repetitive than usual and tower climbing has been replaced with running up to a person or "situation board" at every safe house to fill in your map with a ton of little, cookie-cutter objectives. But the Diablo/Destiny-like nature of its occasional online play gives it a social hook that helps overcome the game's lame attempts at storytelling, its city full of repetitive tasks, and even its complete non-ending. It breaks down like this: if you tend to play these sorts of games by yourself and don't like it when player-on-player conflict can have consequences, you probably won't warm up to The Division. But if you like to group up and do stuff with a set of friends, The Division's competent third-person shooting and its main missions are engaging enough to keep you going. And hopefully the chatter with your friends about hockey scores or where to get the best steak sandwiches or whatever will be good enough to keep you moving through the game's more monotonous moments. The Division is an always-connected third-person shooter that lets you get into groups of up to four players as you take back a quarantined section of New York City from various looters and opportunists who are attempting to take control of the virus-laden city. It has a setting and a premise, but it's very light on actual story. Instead, the point is to get as much loot as you can. You can grab it from the dead bodies of your enemies. You'll find it in chests. You'll get it as a mission reward. You can even craft your own. But the real story in The Division is watching the numbers go higher. You'll find better armor with various stats. You'll re-roll some of those stats until you find ones that are to your liking. You'll slot mods onto your weapons and armor to make them more effective. You'll stare at stat screens that could have been laid out in a more informative manner and puzzle out which gun parts you should strap to your gun to make it great for murdering bad guys... or good guys, depending on what you're up to. The story doesn't really wrap up so much as it stops, as if it really wants you to focus on the numbers instead of the stuff you're actually doing. That stuff? Shooting people in the face and hoping that they drop cool stuff. But since this game is semi-realistic, all that cool stuff is based on real weaponry. So the standard leveling curve that you'd expect from an action-RPG is in place, but you're just getting the same guns with higher levels and damage numbers attached. One AK-47 fires just like another, but your level 30 AK-47 is going to do more damage than your level 8 AK-47. And both of them require you to empty a fair amount of your magazine into the opposition in order to bring down enemies that are at or above your level. You have to really lean on a hardcore suspension of disbelief to care about the proceedings, but if you're able to write all that stuff off as "typical video game shit," it's fine. While the side stuff may be monotonous, the game's main quests take you through some unique locations. You'll stomp through police stations, power stations, Grand Central Station, apartment buildings, and all sorts of other hastily fortified positions. They play like a good co-op cover-based shooter should. The action scales up if you're playing with other people and the AI, though prone to moments of complete idiocy, gets pretty good at flanking you if you aren't good enough at flanking them first. It feels hectic, and your various abilities and loadouts can make or break your team, especially at the higher difficulty settings. Those hairy moments, where your team is constantly saving each other and loosely coordinating attacks on waves of enemies, are the best that The Division's co-op side has to offer. Then there's the Dark Zone. The entire middle of the city is cordoned off due to extreme contamination, so naturally you'll want to go there with some friends and see what's up. This is where the game's hybridized form of competitive multiplayer surfaces. This zone is one large death trap, with enemies that are at your level or tougher. They'll drop good loot, but the loot is "contaminated." So if you want any of it for use in the rest of the game, you have to call in a helicopter at a designated extraction spot and airlift those items out. Extracting that loot requires you to fire a flare gun, which tends to alert another wave of tough enemies, who descend upon your extraction spot to take care of you. If you die, you'll drop your contaminated items and lose a chunk of Dark Zone experience points, which accrue on a separate meter. Also--and this is the important part--other players can turn "rogue" and gun you down at any time, giving them ample opportunities to steal your loot for themselves. Once you do significant damage to a human player, you gain the rogue marker, which alerts every player in your instance and gives them your location. If you can survive, you'll eventually lose rogue status and blend back in. This leads to tense moments around every corner, since you never know when another group of players might roll up on you, help you finish off some AI fodder, and then just turn on you in the process to take everything. Or maybe the guy standing next to you, waiting for an extraction, will get bored, get greedy, and try to take your stuff. The real consequences make every moment a nail biter. The only catch is that, now that I'm at the level cap, most of the loot I'm extracting isn't meaningfully better than what I'm already wearing. But since you can sell or break items down for crafting materials, the process of filling up on contaminated items is still valuable. The Dark Zone, naturally, works best with a steady crew of voice chat enabled players. You can go in alone and hope for the best, but every fight is rough when you're alone and you have no one to back you up if another player or two decide they want your things. That only furthers the Dark Zone as a divisive addition to the game. It can be a hassle to collect a bunch of cool stuff only to see it ripped away from you, but in an era where most games want to reward you even when you lose, there's something sort of refreshing in the way The Division does things. If anything, it'd be cool if this mentality was applied to the entire game, not just the Dark Zone. As it stands, the "regular" parts of New York feel barren. You never encounter human players when you're out on those streets unless you manually group up with people, and there isn't much to do as you run from one place to another. A city-wide Dark Zone would've made the entire game feel like a pressure cooker. Even just occasionally seeing another human player run up and help you take down a side mission at random would've been a huge inclusion. The city is visually striking in its design, with a lot of little detail and less repetition than you might expect from an open-world game. You'll see a lot of nicely devastated interiors and a weather system that makes snow an actual hassle, due to its impact on your visibility. The city changes a bit, too, as you retake parts of it, complete missions, and restore power. This all looks best on an appropriate PC, but the console versions still look great in their own right. My largest issue on consoles is seeing low-detail textures show up on up-close surfaces for a while before the "right" textures finally pop in. It's distracting. There's some good, ominous music used throughout the game, and things like gunfire are done really well. The sound of your weapon changes as you mod it, so silenced weapons sound appropriately snappy while loud ones sound messy and dominating. That sound translates roughly into threat, letting you pull aggro from enemies or reduce your own profile by going silenced, sort of like Army of Two. It's a shame that more attention wasn't paid to The Division's story. The side missions didn't need to be as repetitive as they are, and that's disappointing. But there's a real foundation here that makes this worth paying some attention to, provided you don't intend to just shoot your way through the missions by yourself. As a solo game, The Division gets quite boring, and trying to marathon your way through all the side stuff you'll need to do to unlock every upgrade feels more like a chore than a thrilling video game. But enough of the different components work well enough to make for a good start. At times I had my doubts, but I came out of this one wanting to see at least the first couple of planned updates and ready to play more, when it's available.Original Doom's combat was certainly frantic, but it largely played out on a single plane. New Doom expands on and adds verticality to this combat flow to a wild degree. The concept of hanging out behind cover certainly doesn't exist in this game. Instead you'll constantly bob and weave between enemies that chase you constantly, and projectiles that are just barely slow enough for you to dodge them. With a double jump and the ability to mantle onto ledges, you've got strong mobility options, but the enemies, even the big ones, are actually able to get around the environment just as nimbly as you can. Watching them scramble and leap between platforms and up ledges is one of those moments where you want to stop and marvel at how far enemy behavior in shooters has come--except you can't sit still, because the monsters in this game will hunt you ceaselessly until you reduce them to gore and cinders. It's another great element that makes the action feel like it just never stops moving, and it's a huge step up from shooters where the opposition largely hangs out behind boxes taking pot shots at you. As a rule I generally review games on their default difficulty, but I played through this one on Ultra-violence because, c'mon, it's Doom. This game is at its best when you're constantly one or two hits away from death, forcing you to stay on the move as you juke around imp fireballs and look for that next glory kill or ammo pickup to get you back in the fight. I don't feel this way about every game, but this one's combat is of that rare high quality that warrants the challenge.This is the contradictory engine that drives most of Homefront: The Revolution, and it encapsulates the game’s failed attempt to treat bleak problems of an alternate history America with simple, mechanical solutions. Homefront is a game that's more interested in telling you how grim things are than it is in showing you what makes your circumstances so dire, and rarely finds way to include you in its key moments of storytelling.With Commander Shepard out of the picture, players control Ryder, a young explorer who inherits the role of Pathfinder – the one charged with finding humanity a home in Andromeda’s Heleus Cluster. Ryder has just the right mixture of confidence and uncertainty, so you feel capable while improvising in strange situations. Whether you’re brokering peace with a new race or uncovering alien technology, you and Ryder are figuring things out together. You make some tough calls along the way, but the focus isn’t on choice and consequence this time, so just about any response can feel correct.As Jason explores a series of mutant-filled caverns in his tank, he discovers weapons and upgrades that allow him to access new areas. Sophia’s controls are tight, and the enemy encounters constantly change, which keeps you on your toes. Unfortunately, the environments offer little sense of wonder, so I never felt encouraged to explore.Time is (mostly) on your side in Superhot. Time is slowed down to an absolute crawl when you stop moving, effectively letting you pause, scope out your surroundings, and plan your next moves. Your goal is to eliminate all of the enemies in a level without getting hit yourself. So you can inch along, plotting out a path of murder that dodges every bullet and takes down every opponent. If you fail, you restart the entire level. If you succeed, the game shouts SUPER! HOT! at you over and over again until you decide to move on. It also shows you a real-time run of your play, which makes it look like you're some kind of stylish action movie bad-ass. The game rarely gets too thought-provoking in its 32 main levels, but figuring out the right steps to take in each situation is really thrilling. It also sets you up over and over again, with levels that have you, for example, starting out trapped in an elevator with three armed enemies. Can you punch one, grab his gun out of the air, use it to shoot the one of the others, and then hope that the last armed enemy fires his gun into the enemy you punched and stunned, giving you time to recover from the pistol's recoil and get off another shot? Or maybe you should just throw the damned pistol in that other guy's face, stunning him and giving you a little more time to react. Oh, by the way, when the elevator door opens, there are two guys with shotguns standing right outside. Good luck. The levels themselves can be phenomenal, but it really helps that there's an interesting premise to string you along from one situation to the next. It seems that you're playing a hacked game that some chat friend sent your way. You'll have access to a little ASCII-based (but still mouse-driven) OS that lets you poke around, play some silly little ASCII games, and jack you back into your stolen Superhot executable. The way the game uses this OS and the way it twists and turns it over the course of the game is really great. Though it might not be focused on telling you some huge, complete story, the little bits it gives you about the nature of the game you're playing and the world itself are enough to get your mind going and enough to give it a surprisingly satisfying conclusion. You'll feel like a bad-ass in the levels themselves, but there are also some stellar moments to experience for yourself along the way. Upon completing that progression, you'll unlock an endless mode that has various modifiers, letting you try to kill as many red dudes in 60 seconds of game time, or real time, or only using a sword, and so on. The endless modes spawn enemies into the world in waves and, as you might expect, it gets tricky fast. The action in Superhot is highly stylized, with stark white backgrounds that make the glowing red polygons of the enemies stick out in dramatic fashion. Items you can grab, like swords, bottles, pool balls, and so on, show up in black. It's a great look, especially as the enemies shatter apart into a mess of dissipating polygons whenever you deliver a killing blow. Outside of the action, the ASCII terminal has curved, tube TV-like display and a great phosphor glow that, when combined with the other details you're fed about the nature of things, makes it all feel like some weird, old '90s cyberpunk take on online communication, VR, and what it means to be connected. These disparate parts come together and come alive in some really exciting ways that I'll let you find for yourself. Upon completing a session, as your run plays back in real-time, you can use some rudimentary editing tools to save a clip of the action, which gets rendered out into a looping animated GIF sort of presentation and posted to Killstagram, the game's real, online service devoted to showing and sharing these short clips. This seems like it could be an effective way for the game to get out to more people, since some of these clips already look pretty amazing. They're also good for catching bugs, like the one time an unarmed enemy just kinda started marching in place on me, letting me run circles around him for awhile until deciding to throw a baseball bat into his stupid face. Even that was... strangely satisfying. All told, there's a few hours of action here before you unlock the endless modes, and those modes may very well keep you coming back for many, many more hours. It's a bit of a shame that there isn't slightly more to the core story progression, and the game could be better about surfacing high scores on a leaderboard or other details that might help make the main levels a bit more repeatable on their own. I breezed through that core progression in an afternoon, but enjoyed its little story hooks so much that I immediately started playing through it again to watch it all unfold and see if I missed any little clues about the world of Superhot. It's a strong action puzzle game with some incredibly tense moments that are certainly worth seeing for yourself.Above The Law picks up right where episode two left off. The group has made it to Richmond in hopes of saving Kate from her gunshot wound. What they didn't expect was running into David, Javier's brother and Kate's husband, who was thought to be long gone. The episode focuses on your relationship with David, forcing you to question his motivations for joining with the New Order – a rival group that has caused plenty of pain for Javier and company. Last we saw, David didn't have a good relationship with Javier, but he seems to have mellowed out due to the current circumstances.The cassette tape in Telltale’s Guardians of the Galaxy [official site] is called ‘Rad Mix’ instead of ‘Awesome Mix.’ A crueller man than I might observe that this is all we really need to know about Telltale’s not-based-on-the-film-and-yet-kinda-is spin on the adventures of Rocket, Groot and chums. I.e., that it really, really wants to be be just like what is arguably the most purely entertaining superhero film on the past decade, but it can’t quite pull it off., I’m not that cruel. Not quite., To get it out of the way right at the start, don’t look to this to break with the now-familiar Telltale formula – not in this first episode at least. It’s essentially a string of attractive cutscenes interspersed with a few mild quicktime events to direct the action, and conversational options that in theory have major effects on the outcome but more realistically simply enable you to modulate your character’s personality to a greater or lesser extent. , , GOTG turns the polish dial up a little (lovely lighting! proper anti-aliasing!), and in one key action/quicktime event sequence has your control grasshopper-leaping between the five main characters, but otherwise it’s the interactive movie that this studio is so known for – yer Walking Dead, yer Batman, yer Game Of Thrones, yer Wolf Among Us. , If anything, there’s an even keener sense than usual that this was created as script first, interactive elements second. Sometimes, being handed a crumb of control felt like almost an afterthought – a grudging acknowledgement that this wasn’t just an excuse for writers, artists and actors to play in one of Marvel’s most colourful playgrounds., , I’ve made my peace with this in Telltale games, though I do appreciate it when they try something a little more ambitious, such as the ambush-planning in their Batman series. I’m not telling this videdogame that it should be a completely different sort of videogame – I just wanted to be clear that you should play this because you want another story about Star Lord and his mates, not because you hope it’s some grand exercise in either action or choice and consequence., I watched GOTG1 on the telly the day before playing this, so I was all primed for another bout of jokes, incompetence, squabbling, spaceships and contrived friendship-saves-the-day resolutions. In hindsight, perhaps this was a mistake, because it threw the realisation that, compared to the original act, this game is basically a pub cover band into sharp relief. , I don’t mind a pub cover band. I don’t mind GOTG either. It’s just that, realistically, there’s no hope of convincing myself this is the real deal. , , It’s not the fact that this, like the Batman games, is Telltale’s own universe rather than either film or comic canon. That’s only sensible, really., It’s not the fact that it doesn’t have any of the same actors, or that three of the main characters look dramatically different from their cinema appearance. (They’re based, presumably for licensing reasons, more on the comic look, but hybridised with a fair few elements from the film, particularly in terms of personality and backstory). , It’s not the core plot, which mixes some arguably over-familiar origin story beats with a mildly shocking fresh setup of its own., It’s the fact that it is so heavily influenced by a propulsive, sparky action-comedy movie but is hamstrung by constant slowdowns that devastate its pacing. Sadly, many of these slowdowns are a consequence of it being an uneven combination of showy cutscenes and limited interactivity. When Star Lord has to walk somewhere, he does so achingly slowly, in what I imagine is supposed to be an approximation of Chris Pratt’s swagger but looks more like his underwear just took an unexpected hit., , It’s a collision of license and game style, really. I mean, Batman was suited to a certain amount of hanging around, either on top of gargoyles or at boring posh parties, but the Guardians’ silver screen thing is that they’re almost always getting on with it and only worrying about the consequences after the fact. , This, by contrast, has far more in the way of sitting around worrying about feelings, and in addition slow-paced basic investigation of an area. Very often, it’ll also have its cast break into poses, aping the steady stream of hero shots in the film. It makes a gag out of this once, to its credit, but otherwise it’s just one more type of waiting in a tale that clearly, clearly wants to race on ahead but has had to make concessions in the name of being both a videogame and a close-as-lawyers-allow recreation of the film., To be clear, the slowdowns – the unhurried wanders back and forth to talk to people or grab a single item from an otherwise non-interactive room – wouldn’t grate if this was ‘just’ a Telltale game, as opposed to a Telltale game that so very badly wants to be a Guardians of the Galaxy animated movie more than it does a Telltale game. , , Which rather begs a final question – is this a good Guardians of the Galaxy animated movie? It’s alright. It’s probably rather comparable to what an actual GOTG animated movie would be, in fact, or reading some of the less accomplished comic runs – reasonably well done, but a distant second to the live action movie. The gags aren’t as good, the performances aren’t as charismatic, the spectacle is more serviceable than spectacular, the baddies have less presence, the emotional beats are a little too earnest for their own good. Honestly, it’s alright, but, yeah, don’t do what I do and play it right after watching the film., I had a reasonable time with it. I found the awkward pacing distracting, but really my main issue with it is that it squanders its chance to make a true team game and instead locks you into playing as Star Lord for all but one sequence – because that’s how other Telltale games work. , , There’s a suggestion that the remaining four episodes will each be focused on a different member of the team, which I look forwards to (particularly, I’d like to see Gamora given a rare opportunity to get the best lines, which even the film denies her), but it’s not the same as switching between them frequently to resolve situations in a manner of your choosing. , Instead, the slow focus of both this first episode and, it seems, the whole series, is of dividing the team, both physically and emotionally, for surely inevitable re-connection at the end. The obvious route for wringing drama out of the tale, yes, but I wish it had a more distinctive hook than ‘friends get cross with each other.’ , There is another, better hook, in fact, which I alluded to earlier and can’t say much more about, but it has a shot at rewriting the Guardians rulebook. I don’t think it’s going to ultimately take that shot – there’s something of a Chekov’s spacegun in play that is likely to undo the twist – but I enjoyed its relative boldness nevertheless., , In short, then? Pretty much exactly what you might have expected from the Walking Dead folks doing Guardians. Which is to say competent enough as these things go, but far less suited to manic action-comedy than it is to languid angst and survival. , Oh, and it’s got a 70s and 80s soundtrack – the Rad Mix – featuring songs not quite as effective as those on the film’s Awesome Mix. Figures. Nice ELO number, mind you.Quantum Break is an ambitious mix of video game and broadcast television, where each act of action game is followed up by a big chunk of full-motion video shaped like a TV show in size and scope. Things you do during the game can make an impact on the episodes of the live-action show, which is a neat trick. The catch is that neither end of Remedy's latest project is especially great, leaving you with a lackluster third-person shooter that takes 20-minute breaks to serve you up a basic cable TV show that's hard to watch for a variety of reasons. It's a fantastically cool idea that simply doesn't pan out. The game opens with you, Jack Joyce, returning to your hometown to assist a friend, Paul Serene, with a time travel project, one that your brother is also working on. Things go awry and your friend is sent bumping around in time, where he gets some wild ideas about an apocalyptic event yet to happen and ends up in the past, with enough time to change things around in an attempt to save the universe from said apocalyptic event. Joyce, for his part, gets a set of time abilities, which you use in combat as you battle the probably evil Monarch Corporation. The game twists and turns along the way, as time travel tales often do, folding back in on itself to give you new context for past (or is it future!?!?!?!?) events. The particulars of the story aren't especially noteworthy, but as someone who will end up having at least some appreciation for a time travel story, regardless of its quality, I... ended up having some appreciation for the way Quantum Break's situation plays out. While Joyce may be the protagonist of the video game side of Quantum Break, the end of each chunk of action spins down into a decision gate where you briefly take control of Paul Serene and make one choice about how to proceed. This means you play as the protagonist and also decide how the game's antagonist responds to the threat that Joyce poses to his plans. These are binary choices and the game gives you a brief window into what each of the two decisions might mean for the next section. The game gives you a Telltale-like percentage after each choice, letting you see both how your Xbox Live friends chose to go and how the player base at large went. You won't make very many choices like this over the course of the game, and while each choice feels impactful in the moment, they often play out around characters that don't feel core to the plot. I didn't like playing Quantum Break enough to want to go back and see how the different choices panned out, but in terms of how it felt the first time through, the paths I chose ended up feeling slight and somewhat transparent, like you could see where different things might be stitched in or ripped out, depending on how you go. Shoot time juice out of your hands to stop time around an enemy. Or just hold the button down and cause a "time explosion" instead. After you make that choice, it's time to sit back and watch some TV. The game breaks up its action with episodes of a show that only focuses on Jack Joyce in the background, instead giving you some back story into characters that feel tertiary to most of the proceedings. Knowing that Monarch's main bodyguard/thug has a baby on the way might give you some insight into his character, but not enough to actually feel like that's meaningful information, especially with the way his character ended up getting handled in the action portion of the game, where he might as well be yet another faceless thug. The change in focus from the action to the show ends up making both sides of the game harder to follow and tougher to care about. It doesn't help that the show itself has a look, style, and tone to it that makes it feel like the type of action sci-fi show that gets wiped off of basic cable before its first season finishes airing. With few exceptions, the TV side of Quantum Break goes nowhere and fills in gaps that you don't really need to be filled. The important story moments still happen in the video game side of the package, though even those important moments are squandered by the game's ending, which feels thrown together in a "oh wow, we're out of game, we'd better wrap this up" sort of way. It's also worth noting that the TV-like episodes stream over the internet by default, which in my case led to uneven performance, with some episodes hitching up so frequently that the game finally gave up and asked if I wanted to just download the episodes. That's 75GB of hard drive space on the Xbox One, should you choose to do so. Actually playing Quantum Break means you'll engage in a lot of third-person cover shooting and some ill-conceived platforming. The cover shooting is buoyed by your time abilities, which let you do things like stop time around a group of enemies, shoot a bunch of bullets into a stasis bubble, and watch as it all collapses, forcing a ton of bullets into your enemies all at once. You can run faster than fast, letting you get close for melee takedowns. You can pop a time shield around yourself to block damage and have time to heal. You can... cause a time explosion that... kills enemies? You can flip on time vision to see any objects in the environment that you can pick up and/or read? It feels like the developers just came up with a set of abilities and slapped the word "time" on the front of each one. The gun handling in Quantum Break is pretty underwhelming and the powers at your disposal don't feel as cool as they probably should. In some alternate timeline, this game has abilities that work together and chain off of each other, creating a more satisfying feeling of flow in combat. Instead it's simple cooldown management as each of your powers is just about as good as every other one at taking down one or two enemies at a time. Eventually you'll encounter enemies that aren't affected by those time powers, which means you'll have to fall back to the game's mundane shooting on its own. Remedy has delivered fantastic action games with exciting shooting components in the past, and it's a real shame that Quantum Break doesn't follow in those footsteps. Puzzles usually take the form of platforming sequences. Perhaps you'll have to rewind time in a localized area to make a bunch of fallen obstacles get out of your way just long enough for you to dash through. Perhaps you'll have to run along a frozen catastrophe in progress and take a very specific path to get through. Either way, the movement in Quantum Break feels like Joyce is trapped underwater. It takes too much to get him moving and turning with the type of precision you'd probably want from an action game. Overall, the gameplay feels like it needs more variety, which makes the TV show side of things frustrating, since it features a car chase and other things that probably would've been more engaging if they were in the video game portion of the product. On one hand, Quantum Break fits perfectly into Remedy's timeline, representing something grander and more cinematic than the fake TV shows and other ambitious little elements that have worked their way into the studio's past work. But it's probably telling that I was way more excited to watch Quantum Break's fake in-game TV show on various TVs found around the edges of the game than the one that was actually produced and shoved into the middle of the action. There are a lot of sound ideas in the middle of Quantum Break and, hey, if you're a sucker for goofy time travel hijinks this game has that going for it, too. But those ideas are the only things holding this project together. The moment you look past that heady connective tissue, every single one of Quantum Break's individual elements fall flat.More surprising to me than the graphical upgrade is the bump to the quality of the narrative. I’ve always enjoyed the natural-sounding dialogue of the series, but the treasure-hunting plots never really stuck with me (no matter how many odd supernatural twists came from out of left field). For the first time, I found myself caring about the fate of these characters and their relationships with each other. Sam is a fantastic addition to the series, and Nathan and Elena’s relationship presents several memorable moments by the time the credits roll. Nathan feels like more than a walking quip machine this time around, and A Thief’s End does a great job of presenting his various struggles after he presumably retired at the end of Drake’s Deception. At times, the dialogue and relationships between characters resemble the heartfelt, character-driven tone of The Last of Us: Left Behind more than a summer blockbuster.The series' more esoteric factions like the quarians, volus, geth, elcor, and hanar are written out of the game entirely, and in their place there are exactly two new alien races, both of which largely manifest as humanoid soldiers with assault rifles for you to shoot at. Outside combat, the indigenous angarans serve as a scattered, oppressed native species trying to recover its history after centuries of turmoil brought on by the Scourge, a violent dark-energy phenomenon that never gets satisfyingly explained. The angarans have in more recent decades been subjugated by the kett, the monolithic, religious-cult antagonist force made up of silly-looking aliens covered in bony plates. Andromeda pays some lip service early on to the delicate nature of first contact with these new races, but in practice it rushes you through these encounters, and foregoes any narrative weight they might have had, so you can start accepting quests from or shooting at these new aliens, or both. Later there are a few brief attempts to flesh out the nature of the angaran and kett societies, but the game doesn't go far enough in that direction to give you much to chew on. Andromeda also references aspects of the previous three games on a regular basis, but almost all of these references feel shoehorned in, in a way intended to make you go "hey, I remember that!" rather than believably enhancing the story or contextualizing the new characters. There's a particular late-game reveal in this vein that was so predictable I almost felt insulted by it.If you’ve played the original (or the HD Collection version), you’ll notice the initial similarities. Many of the planets from the original make their return, often in the same order and almost always with the same basic visual style. Despite this, many elements within the stages themselves are different. Layouts are sometimes entirely new, and the placement of collectibles (and number of them) is totally different. Rarely did I explore a level and think “oh yeah, I remember this part.” Rather, it conjured up general memories of planet themes as I blasted my way through these stages.Star Fox Zero’s larger issue is that even though the format and gameplay are so similar to Star Fox 64, it feels like the time for this type of game has come and gone. If this had been released for the GameCube instead of Star Fox Adventures, I assume that it would have been almost universally praised by fans of the series. Virtually every element of the 64 entry is intact here. The campaign is largely Arwing-focused and features branching paths and secret exits until the final confrontation with Andross. Completionists can return to levels to collect all of the medals and try to beat their best kill score. Voice actors for the entire team return, and the dialogue features plenty of callbacks for nostalgic fans.Your main goal is to gain as many DedSec followers as possible as you expose the dirty secrets of one corporation to the next, but it feels more like a popularity contest than hacktivism. You take on the role of a glorified prankster, but the game seems aware of its own absurdities. Though it can get some laughs, tipping the scale in favor of goofiness meant I never sympathized with DedSec’s end goal of taking down Blume (the makers of ctOS), or connected with any of the characters, who are presented as whiny millennials angry at the system. Instead of being likeable, they are too obnoxious and petty to be meaningful companions.You cannot unlock every upgrade for either character in a single playthrough, which makes the weight of rune-spending decisions heavier and encourages replayability. The addition of bone charm customization and a no-powers mode also give you variables should you choose to play multiple times. The story is largely the same no matter which protagonist you choose, but Emily and Corvo’s unique voiceovers give new perspective to unfolding events. Also expect to stumble upon nooks and crannies you may have missed earlier.The game doesn't spend much time actually exploring this new flip, though, as a new/old threat of creatures that come to be known as "the Swarm" rear their ugly head around halfway through the game. While the airdrops of robot troops made the game's opening chapters feel at least a little different, the Swarm come off as the Locust troops of the previous games but with somewhat better AI. They'll flank you, they'll hop over your cover to knock you back, but they'll also just post up behind something and take mindless shots in your direction. And they'll occasionally emerge from nests that look suspiciously like the Locust emergence holes. So the bulk of the game, then, just feels like more Gears of War with some new unspeakable creatures thrown in along the way, including a "snatcher" who sucks up downed players and traps them inside the creature's stomach until other players put enough rounds into the enemy, forcing it to puke the player back up. There's some neat stuff in there, but I was definitely left wishing that the campaign didn't cruise back into its comfort zone quite so quickly.To find the solutions, players stack, rotate, and even cut chunks out of cute paper characters to progress. You might have access to as few as two or as many as four characters depending on the mode, but they always possess the same abilities and form regardless of the puzzle. Almost every puzzle revolves around playing with your characters' geometry in clever ways. For example, one puzzle features a threaded nut in the middle of the stage that needs to be turned to lower an out-of-reach object. To achieve this, I had to use one of my characters to cut a hole the size of the nut through the other character's midsection, then have that character position itself like a wrench around a nut and rotate to lower the object down.A single, deserted street is often where you start in Robo Recall. Nothing but asphalt, a few cars, some streetlights, and silence. It doesn’t last long. Within moments, countless robots flood the sector, armed with shotguns, pistols, and claws primed to pull you limb from limb. Too bad for them you’ve got two pistols with endless ammo ready to put them all out of commission.A few sections limit your ability to fly, but most levels embrace your power of flight, and working through them feels refreshing as a result. During my first couple of hours, I had to remember that if I couldn’t find the missing piece or trick to solve a puzzle, I could just fly up to platforms that seemed out of reach. Whenever I got stuck later on, it was because I hadn’t thought of a particular use for a tool I already had, like the ability to hide from enemies behind boxes or grappling objects from afar (a skill you acquire later on). Some of the puzzles go by too quickly, but most are involved enough to make you scratch your head. Unfortunately, the remaining modes fall short. Rhythm Recital challenges you to play along to several iconic songs spanning Mario’s three decades. I loved that I could select songs ranging from the Overworld Theme from the original Super Mario Bros. to the Super Bell Hill theme from Super Mario 3D World, but the instrument parts feel only vaguely related to the music being played. Rather than playing the actual music from the games, you’re relegated to adding small flourishes and additions to the songs as they play automatically. Coinathlon is a repetitive mess of a mode where you play the same three coin-collection minigames on repeat. Each coin you collect moves your character a space forward; the first to complete a set number of laps wins. Everyone's motivated by understandable ends. Your lieutenants are all people wronged by the Marcanos in various ways, and they're all looking for their own kind of revenge against them. Those goals happen to align, but it's clear that the alliances you strike have to be managed. There's even a system built into the game that revolves around this. Each time you claim a territory you have the option to assign it to one of them during a sit-down. They'll each make their case for why they deserve to run this chunk of the city, usually a case made more emphatically if you've already assigned one or both of the rackets to them prior. Freeze one of them out enough times, and they may turn on you, unlocking a separate story mission you won't see if you manage to keep them happy.I appreciate the pacing at which the narrative is presented, and it’s especially apparent during one vehicle-based mission. In this fairly open section, Nathan is free to drive around the vast plains of Madagascar in the shadow of a volcano. Sully and Sam are in tow, and a lot of this time is filled with conversation between the three. Some is plot-centric, and some is spent reminiscing over old times. At a couple of points, the trio pause their chat as they stumble upon outposts filled with mercenaries. They hop out of the car, partake in several minutes of neck-snapping and gunfire, and then get back on their way and continue their conversation. Rarely does a gameplay sequence or a cutscene feel like it drags on for too long, save for a couple of chaotic areas near the end.A minimalistic story could be a serious detriment to other games, but the focus is clear here: Gameplay and space combat take center stage. Arcade-style movement with the ability to drift and brake on a dime after boosting to dodge a locked-on enemy combatant is satisfying, and you don’t need a HOTAS setup to enjoy it either – the core mouse and keyboard controls work great. For the series that brought us adversaries like Saren and the Illusive Man, the primary foe in Andromeda is surprisingly boilerplate. He barely gets any screen time, and his goals are exactly what you would expect from an evil alien overlord. Your confrontation culminates in a confusing final mission in which everyone’s lives are at stake, but I cannot tell you precisely how my actions were preventing disaster, which drains the tension and triumph from the ultimate victory.Multiplayer is present once again, and “present” basically sums up how I feel about it. It’s there, it features a few modes (team deathmatch, domination, and capture the flag), and it all controls perfectly fine. All of the solid gunplay and platforming controls are intact, but they lose a ton of their impact when removed from the cinematic presentation of the campaign. There’s fun to be had at times, like scoring a headshot on an enemy as he swings from platform to platform or charging your own grappling hook for a one-hit melee kill. If you’re looking for a multiplayer mode that will keep you coming back, however, I don’t think it’s this basic offering. Character customization options and weapon mods unlock as you play (or you can take a shortcut by purchasing Uncharted Points for real money), but they’re nothing that’ll make Uncharted 4 the multiplayer game of choice for most shooter fans. If you find yourself enjoying it, however, the upcoming map and co-op DLC packs will be available for free.Ultimately, different people want different things out of their console-style competitive shooters these days, and the market has split between this type of faster shooter and the larger scale and more deliberate style of a Battlefield game. If you're forever on the Battlefield side of things, this type of high-speed action might not be up your alley at all. For my part, Titanfall 2 improves greatly upon the first game and stands up there alongside some of my favorite games in the Call of Duty franchise.I never felt more alone than I did on the planet @UtilityLimb. At this stage of my journey, I'd never been to a harsher place. Impossibly massive cliffs jutted up all around, offering sheer drops into small pools of putridly hot water. Huge storms that almost completely killed visibility beyond a few feet in front of me rolled in regularly, kicking up purple dust clouds that made the environment look like an early Nintendo 64 game. The only life I ever found were a few out-of-place-looking cow creatures, and a small number of pulsating shrimp things that swam around those tiny pools of water. Of the precious few stations I found, all were empty of life. No one existed on this bizarre, horrible place.No Man's Sky feels like it's been in the public consciousness for an eternity. In reality, it's closer to two-and-a-half years. All that build-up, all those weighty expectations, all of it began a little over half a US Presidential term ago at, of all places, the 2013 VGX Awards. Remember that show? If you do, it's probably because of what a disaster it was. But somewhere in there, tucked amid Joel McHale's active disdain for his hosting role and a bunch of ill-fitting Odd Future interview segments, maybe you remember Sean Murray of Hello Games unveiling his studio's latest creation, an impossibly huge-sounding space exploration game called No Man's Sky. Maybe you remember him nervously shifting as Geoff Keighley grilled him on the details of the game, looking down at his shoes as he described his vision of the ultimate "You see that mountain? You can go there" game, a procedurally generated universe of over 18 quintillion planets, all explorable from pole to pole. Maybe you remember even McHale himself, so detached and sarcastic throughout the show, letting out a brief eruption of genuine-feeling incredulity at the scope of what Murray's small team was trying to accomplish.I love the set-up of the story mode, but one of the most bone-headed decisions I’ve seen in modern sports games kills any hope of having a good time. For some stupid reason, basic skills are locked until the player completes force-fed tutorials, which are distributed intermittently throughout the season with no rhyme or reason. This means you can’t take a slap shot, check a player, slash/hook/poke-check on defense, or even deke until you complete these lessons. This leaves you at a severe disadvantage through most of the year, and the losses pile up. Walking around in Alola feels better, and its layout is much friendlier. Tall grass is still unavoidable in some instances, but you can often take a path around it if you need to avoid combat. Alola’s islands are more open, and while it is in your best interest to explore the grass, fight, and collect, I was happy to discover the safe routes when I was just trying to go from point A to B. Even the trainers who can’t help but stop you in the road to battle offer more signs they’re prepared to pounce. You won’t make much progress if you avoid them all, but I like having a way out.ReCore's structure is a bit like a 3D Zelda game, in that you have a series of overworld maps with a few things to do here and there, and a variety of story and side dungeons you load into where the heavier combat and puzzle-solving take place. At first this seems like a nice way to mix up what you're doing: finish a story dungeon to advance the plot, roam around and collect some stuff for a bit, pop into a side dungeon (which come in puzzle, platforming, and arena-combat flavors), then repeat. Your access to all of this stuff is gated by the number of prismatic cores--an item sort of analogous to Mario 64's stars--you've managed to collect via story and overworld means, and you can see on the map how many cores and which robot buddies you need to enter a given dungeon, along with the recommended character level.Players are accustomed to navigating open worlds, but Link’s ability to climb leads to unprecedented levels of exploratory freedom. If you see something in the distance, you can walk or fly straight to it, regardless of what’s in your path. Link never needs to circumnavigate. Every surface in Hyrule is an opportunity to further your adventure. Gigantic statues you might think are set-dressing are used as platforms to kick-start a flight. Mountains normally used to create barriers are climbing challenges; your reward for these tests of endurance might be a new item, but even just a new view of Hyrule can be equally valuable. I never tired of climbing toward the skies, looking out into the world, and seeing all it had to offer in detail.I was pleasantly surprised by the strange Mario Shuffle, a 1v1 mode that gives both players three cardboard cutouts and two dice. Each team rolls its dice, then decides which piece uses each roll in an effort to get to the opponent’s side of the board. The strategy of deciding which piece to apply the rolls to makes you factor in the spaces that can either send you forward or push you backwards, and that jumping an opposing piece stuns them for a turn, while landing on them sends them all the way back to start. My most thrilling moment with Star Rush came from this mode, as my opponent and I struggled to get our final pieces to the end – but with them both in the same lane, we kept impeding on each other’s progress.After Naughty Dog released The Last of Us in 2013 to rave reviews and commercial success, fans of the studio were left wondering where the developer would go from there. The story of Joel and Ellie was seemingly complete, and another Uncharted entry seemed unlikely considering Naughty Dog’s history of putting out a trilogy per console generation before moving on to a new IP. When it was revealed that the studio’s new title would indeed be Uncharted 4, many fans (including myself) were disappointed that we wouldn’t yet be getting a new series on the PlayStation 4. We were ready for the next big thing from the studio, and Uncharted 3 already felt a bit too familiar to its predecessor. I’m glad to discover that these worries were misplaced, and Naughty Dog has created another classic with Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End. While it shares plenty of elements with the entries that came before it, the bar of quality has been raised substantially to create the best game in the series.All that said, keeping them all alive has its benefits too. The side missions you end up embarking on for each lieutenant offer up some additional backstory for each of them, and some of the strongest writing in the game crops up during these sequences. You learn about the various people who betrayed Vito and led him to the point of expecting death around every corner, discover the ties Burke still holds to the IRA and his frayed relationship with his surviving daughter, and grow to understand Cassandra's larger goal of arming the people of The Hollow against the myriad elements that would seek to oppress and destroy them.Unplugging your first character from the Matrix-style tubing and setting off into the sky-high Tower of Barbs is a daunting, strange task. Scooping up mouthfuls of exotic mushrooms, battling an endless stream of foes with scavenged red-hot irons, and attempting to stave off death until the next elevator checkpoint is just the beginning of a layered adventure that pits you against deadly traps, bosses, and other players in asynchronous high-stakes combat. I’ve always admired game franchises that are self-aware about what they offer and really lean into the aspects that make them stand out. Saints Row is a good example, as it started as little more than a GTA clone with some silly humor mixed in. As the series went on, it forged its own identity by focusing on the absurd elements instead of attempting to ride Rockstar’s coattails. Just Cause seems to be following a similar path. Its first entry had its fair share of exploding barrels and a limited amount of stunt opportunities, but the game was played relatively straight-faced compared to its sequel. With Just Cause 2, Avalanche clearly took note of which elements people enjoyed from the original and introduced a lot more of it. More stunts, even more egregious barrel placement, and an awesome grappling hook that can tether items together helped make it a far more entertaining game than its predecessor. Just Cause 3 is Avalanche’s opportunity to be the Saints Row: The Third of the series, leaning as far as possible into open-world sandbox insanity. My hopes for this outcome seemed to come true upon first assuming control of Rico Rodriguez in Just Cause 3. Right away, you’re surfing on the back of a giant cargo plane and armed with a rocket launcher with infinite ammo. Off to a good start. Within minutes of completing this first sequence, I was given two of the game’s biggest new additions - the enhanced tether and the wingsuit. Just Cause 3 doesn’t dabble and make you finish a bunch of crappy side missions to get to the cool stuff. The game patiently waits until you’re done firing infinite rockets at bad guys, and then immediately says “HEY HERE’S THIS COOL CRAP.” That’s not to say that the game doesn’t reward you with fun upgrades as you progress. Throughout my 40+ hours with the game, I was earning new abilities, weapons, and vehicles at a steady clip by following the same basic gameplay format that was in Just Cause 2. As before, you gradually chip away at a tyrannical dictator’s grasp on an island nation by using your growing arsenal to liberate settlements. Avalanche seems to understand that narrative has never been Just Cause’s strong suit, as the cutscenes are brief affairs that involve someone telling you what to blow up. You’ll hear plenty of radio chatter about how evil General Di Ravello is, but his lack of screen time means you’ll see his image more often in the context of statues that you’re strapping C4 to or tethering to a helicopter. The process of liberating the island is more streamlined this time around, omitting the chaos score gating from Just Cause 2 (you still have a chaos score, but it only appears to affect leaderboard rankings). Instead of any kind of currency system, weapons and vehicles are unlocked by completing missions. Once you’ve unlocked these items, they’re available at any time via the rebel drop option in your menu. With no chaos or currency in play, the only thing stopping you from calling in whatever you want, whenever you want is a cooldown timer. It doesn’t feel like there’s much consequence to anything, which is a welcome feeling in a game that primarily serves as a vehicle for wanton destruction. With no currency or XP, there’s no penalty for dying. If you die halfway through destroying an enemy settlement, you’ll respawn with all of your progress still intact (and your ammo fully restocked). If you unlock some goofy new weapon that you want to try out, go right ahead and use it to wreak havoc on the civilian population with no penalties whatsoever. Don’t worry about being stingy on the C4, either, as your supply is infinite from the very beginning for some damn reason. Considering that the joy I get from Just Cause lies in blowing crap up in increasingly hilarious fashion, I welcomed this “just have a good time” approach. I rarely felt frustrated by unfair checkpoints or difficult encounters, and I never felt discouraged from experimenting with some stupid way to approach a situation. My limited moments of frustration with Just Cause 3 usually revolved around wonky physics and grappling mechanics, with Rico (or his vehicles) occasionally getting caught up on geometry in awkward ways. This was particularly annoying when participating in one of the many side activities that involve racing a vehicle. Most of these are of the standard “race your car/motorcycle/boat/plane/wingsuit through the rings in under X time” variety, while one borrows from Speed and tasks you with keeping your miles per hour over a set limit as you deliver a bomb to a target. No matter which variety of racing side mission I played, I always worried about some dumb rock or pole throwing me off course or halting my progress to the point of restarting. Most of the side missions went off without a hitch, but a few courses have annoying X-factors that you can’t really prepare for. None of these side missions feel particularly unique (others include GTA-style rampages), outside of one that I enjoyed that involves tethering a magnet to your vehicle and delivering rare materials to a drop-off point. They’re all worth doing in the long haul, however, as your progress in side missions is what unlocks new features like nitrous boosts and additional tethers/explosives.As you level up between runs, you unlock equippable perks and permanent upgrades that take some of the edge off. Some simply boost your stats, but others offer larger gunshots, a healing item between levels, or a one-time revive. These perks make progress much easier, and should give anyone the tools they need to make it through the harrowing trials later on; without spoiling too much, I was able to outlast the final boss by simply standing there and shooting at him, since I invested heavily in health. That anti-climactic ending came after a long streak of successes I didn’t think I had in me, though, and I was still pumping my fist when the credits rolled.Adam Jensen's undergone some additional modifications, resulting in some "experimental" new abilities. These pop up on the skill tree after the game's tutorial, but unlike the rest of the skill tree, which simply unlocks as you spend points, the experimental abilities cause extra strain on Jensen's system. So to use them--at least at first--you'll need to completely disable other parts of the skill tree. This creates a bit of a balancing act between abilities that probably would have been cooler if the experimental abilities themselves were more interesting. I ended up playing most of the game without them, and since the game needs to be balanced to support any playstyle, I never found myself wishing I had the ability to execute an air dash or really needed an augmented, ranged non-lethal takedown. Walking up behind enemies and pressing the takedown button works just as well and doesn't require any ammo. Still, the tree does support a somewhat wider range of playstyles with these abilities, and that's cool. Of course, if you just want to play it like a shooter, you may find the gunplay itself to be a little lacking. You're given plenty of weapons to choose from (including a better-than-average shotgun, which became my go-to weapon when things went bad), but most of them never felt great to use, and the movement never feels snappy enough to make the action feel like a top-tier action game. The shooting is just fine for an action-RPG with a stealth focus, though.If you're looking to jump online and throw down against players across the globe, Super Bomberman R's online suite gives you the option to play quickplay battles with customizable rules, or the more standard league battles that let you play to level up into new, more competitive player pools. These simple options could deliver a satisfying way to play, except that network instability renders most matches unplayable due to lag. Even when I tell the game to only find those who have a "good" network connection, the matches feature some degree of latency, with the level of impact ranging from a simple half-second delay from command input to execution, to players running in place and falling completely unresponsive.This isn't the only frustration with the trick system. Initiating the rolls and flips themselves is inconsistent, rails feel floaty and can be hard to engage, and there are times when even ollie-ing doesn't happen when prompted. The fact that there are multiple ways to spin, flip, roll, and ollie isn't bad in and of itself, but it doesn't help users get comfortable with the controls, either. Also, when you get a face full of snow after messing up a trick –which happens quite a bit – the rag doll physics often glitch out or the respawn puts you in a bad spot.I enjoyed my time with the first Halo Wars, so I’m glad that Microsoft took a chance with a sequel. Unfortunately, aside from Blitz, I don’t feel like Creative Assembly pushed the envelope. Simplified base building, smaller maps, and outdated level design keep Halo Wars 2 for achieving great heights. However, if you loved the first Halo Wars, this entry delivers more of the same.While the battles are mechanically solid, the systems feeding into them don’t scale well, and ultimately make your options feel limited. Ryder isn’t restricted to a particular class, so you can choose from a broad array of combat, tech, and biotic skills. At first, I was dazzled by possibilities, like draining shields with Overload before tossing off a Pull-and-Throw combo to trigger a biotic explosion. I also like the concept of profiles, which provide different static bonuses depending on how you spend your skill points. However, with dozens of options, why you should invest in one power or profile over another is unclear, and your ability to experiment is constrained since you can only equip three powers at once. You can technically switch to other power/profile sets in mid-combat, but all of the powers need to cool down once you switch, which makes it an impractical solution – especially since you can only switch powers, not weapons. Combat is at its best when you pick a small range of abilities and passive bonuses and invest in them exclusively.If you're looking for actual purchasing advice--and because people keep asking me specifically if the game is worth buying for the campaign alone--MW Remastered is worth purchasing if and when it goes on sale separately from Infinite Warfare, but might not keep you engaged for as long as you'd initially assume. And the IW campaign is great, but not long or replayable enough to warrant a full-priced purchase on its own. But if you can find it at a discount, or if you're a big fan of the zombies mode, there's enough there to make it worth seeing.Half-Genie abandons the pixelated, retro look of its predecessors for high-definition art, and the result is impressive. Every character, enemy, boss, and object moves with a fluidity often reserved for big-budget animated features. Just watching the characters loop through their idle animations is mesmerizing, and that motion extends to controlling Shantae, which feels great.Joule is one of a handful of maintenance workers on a desert world called Far Eden, cryosleeping away the decades while an army of "corebots" terraforms the planet into a lush garden world suitable for the remnants of a plague-riddled humanity to settle on. The rest of the people are also in stasis aboard ships in orbit, as far as Joule knows, but she wakes up way past the terraforming deadline to find Far Eden is still an arid waste and most of the corebots have been up to no good. Joule and her trio of friendly robotic helpers set out to try to get the planet-building gear back up and running, and figure out what's going on with all those bad bots. Joule's robot buddies are endearing as all heck, and even with no discernible dialog they show a ton of personality just through their body language. But there aren't really any other meaningful players in the story, nor any significant story development at all. Along the way there are a couple of intriguing revelations about the terraforming effort and the state of affairs back on Earth, and the idea of robots rebelling against their creators and dooming humanity's last hope in the process is interesting on its face, but the game so profoundly fails to reach a satisfying conclusion about any of this that, having finished ReCore, looking back on the game's initial premise just makes me feel sad.Since its inception in comic form, and later in its cinematic incarnation, Guardians of the Galaxy has always flown by the seat of its pants, both in creative decisions and narrative arcs. Frantic pacing, weird characters, and over-the-top situations somehow coalesce and triumph through pure pulp craziness.Predictability is hard to come by in Infinite Air's trick system – an ignominious position for such a major gameplay component. Spin is generated by pre-loading your rider before launch, and the amount of spin you get decays the longer you hold down the triggers (for left or right spin, respectively). But this isn't the tricky part, as you can become accustomed to this (and pulling off tricks in general) after several hours of play. Stopping your rotation, however, is another matter altogether. Some previous trick-based games like Tony Hawk or Skate are built around specific inputs producing specific tricks. The fact that Infinite Air is physics-based and eschews the Tony Hawk-type direct approach means there is no way to predict when you're going to stop rotating once you start. This isn't a big problem when you're spinning in the normal horizontal plane, but if you try and perform tricks containing end-over-end flips or rolls, you have no way of judging whether you'll land on your feet or not.There’s a scene in the History Channel’s Vikings where the protagonist, Ragnar Lothbruk, says he is “bloodsick” after a hard fought campaign. He’s maudlin, weary of everything. It’s as if he is coming down from a dark age combat high. Well, that’s sort of how For Honor leaves me feeling after a battle. Even if my team won, I’m frustrated and irritable at all the small deaths. That attack from behind by three other players. That shonky, crowded melee amid the NPC pawns. Those dozen cuts from a Samurai blade that I could have sworn I was blocking. All of it working together to leave me weary, sighing and bloodsick.My time with Gears of War 4 left me with a feeling that the game could have been a little more ambitious in spots. It feels a little too safe and too unwilling to ditch some of the traditions of the initial trilogy. But the ways it plays around with and reintroduces the characters from those Gears of War games is expertly handled, making for some great moments along the way. It might not stick the landing, but Gears of War 4 puts the franchise back on the map in a big way, and large parts of it are a great time.I should also point out that, as a gamer who experiences simulation sickness, Robinson: The Journey quickly made me feel nauseous. When playing VR, I can usually take motion sickness medication and be fine. With this game, the drugs only delayed the inevitable for a little while, rather than keeping the sickness at bay completely. This won’t be a problem for everyone, but it affected my ability to feel immersed.Things pick up years later in an occupied Philadelphia where “The Resistance” struggles to expel the Korean People’s Army from the city. Philadelphia is split into distinct zones (with a fairly hefty load as you travel between them). Half of the areas are “red zones,” bombed-out battlefields where the resistance fights openly against the KPA. The other half are “yellow zones,” occupied residential districts where regular folks try to carry on life in the presence of police brutality, american collaborators and… well, that’s about all we’re given really. Homefront never stops to paint a picture of civilian life under the KPA. What little detail it provides about the setting mostly comes through dry journal entries and laughable graffiti scattered across the game. But things are bad, Homefront insists, very bad. And the Resistance needs help.The game board of ES:L is arranged into two lanes, the normal and the shadow. Everything happens normally on the standard lane, but units deployed to the shadow lane operate under the cloak of darkness for a turn, and can’t be attacked by enemy units. Lanes allow you to play units that are more fragile or need time to set up with some safety, and add an element of strategy to things instead of just dumping all your critters in one giant pool. The Batman mythos has had countless interpretations and retellings across various mediums since the character’s inception in 1939. Telltale’s series feels unique stacked up against the myriad stories of Bruce Wayne and his crusade to save the city of Gotham, and that is an achievement by itself. This interpretation of the Bat has had its ups and downs, with new villains and unexpected twists making it easy to look past an all-too-familiar formula of quick-time events and binary choices. Unfortunately, the finale lacks the potent plot punches of previous episodes and feels slipshod in comparison to the best episodes.Many puzzles require ridiculous leaps of reason or sheer luck in order to be solved. This is the fault of many point-and-click games, but Memoranda’s flaws are reminiscent of my worst experiences with the genre (like the infamous inflatable rubber duck puzzle in The Longest Journey). Often, I was combining irrelevant objects or relying on trial and error to progress. Solving these illogical puzzles is frustrating, and the laborious process doesn’t feel satisfying when you finally arrive at the solution. Graham’s always been one for embellishment, which has been one of the funniest parts of the games. Players who tried doing weird things were often rewarded with Christopher Lloyd’s stammering that, now that he thinks about it, that wasn’t how it happened. This time, his retelling is unreliable because of his memory loss. A few puzzles center on his inability to keep his facts straight, and even though these inconsistencies are played for laughs, it’s sad to see our once-proud hero in this state. Some areas are blanked out, as Graham can’t recall the details. And in one panic-stricken moment, he desperately tries to embellish moments from previous chapters so they’re more interesting. Gwendolyn does her best to calm Graham down and get him to tell the stories as they actually happen. The two characters have had great chemistry from the beginning, and their interactions are particularly sweet here. A storytelling handoff happens later that ties things together beautifully.This disparity is central to Homefront’s general design, too, at least for the start of the campaign. The KPA holds onto their territory with armed patrols, surveillance drones, and the aforementioned airships, which cast down glowing beams of blue-green light in search of any Resistance operatives. Health regenerates at a snail’s pace and healing items are limited, so open-air gunfights end quickly (and not in the player’s favor). Open conflict is deadly, and you learn early to avoid it whenever possible.I interacted with it, and it told me that amid its pulsing energies, a small birdlike creature had appeared. It looked dead, with its neck clearly broken. The monolith had reanimated it for my benefit, as some kind of test. It screamed in agony. The monolith gave me a choice: Let it be, or put it out of its misery. I thought for a second, and chose to kill it. Mercy seemed altogether absent on this world, so I felt it my duty to inject a little into it. I was rewarded with a new upgrade for my exosuit.I’ve always appreciated how bonkers Resident Evil games got with their stories, but the more straightforward narrative this time around was a nice change of pace. You'll be able to follow the entirety of the story even without any previous knowledge of the series, as well. It stays intriguing throughout even if it ultimately leaves a few questions unanswered. Only one area near the end of the game seems like it drags a bit, feeling more like a solid DLC side story than a part of the main campaign.Even without an overarching carrot-and-stick reward system, Everything’s hijacking mechanic is strong enough to make the entire game a worthwhile venture. I was constantly coming across new objects to inhabit and new places to explore. I spent seven hours exploring various planes of existence, and I even turned on autoplay to watch an A.I. guide my entity through the universe. Despite the finite checklist of things to find, I had a surprising amount of fun seeking them out.About 10 hours in, I hit a wall where I just wasn’t having fun battling or drawing characters anymore. Still, that’s 10 hours of entertainment as well as a solid foundation here for something more grand in the coming months if Intelligent Systems takes the initiative and adds more features (like permadeath in the campaign). For now, Fire Emblem Heroes is a flawed but enjoyable way to pass the time for fans as well as a solid starting point for anyone who’s been curious about the series but hasn’t dived in yet.Death is never far away, as you continue to climb the tower to face stronger opponents. You’re also getting stronger by collecting and upgrading many recipes found in the tower that provide much better options than the salvaged pipes and hammers laying about. Unlike a traditional roguelike, death doesn’t need to be the end, as you can pay a price in gold to bring your character back with all their levels and loot. Alternatively – and most insidiously – when you can use real money to bring them back to life right on the spot, allowing you to continue. This also means you can just brute-force your way through with your wallet, if you can afford it. While this isn’t a big deal for a single life now and then, taking on something much stronger than you costs a pretty penny. I became frustrated with the system when dying to a high-level Hunter, ranged weapon salvo, or other situations with almost no chance to survive, only to be offered this cash “solution” to save myself a significant amount of progress and time. Unfortunately, this version is missing a key feature from the original game. You're able to click the analog stick to pause time, but you cannot speed up the simulation. On several occasions, I stepped away while the game was running to let my population and money accumulate, where in the PC version I could simply speed up time.Some puzzles are character specific, while others require multiple characters to solve, such as teaming up to disrupt a radio station’s broadcast or throwing an item into a sewer grate to aid a kidnapped character. These logical multi-step puzzles are where Thimbleweed Park shines most. However, inventory management between protagonists can be tedious, since you need the characters to be in the same location in order to exchange items.Zombie fans have a lot of options out there, but they shouldn’t overlook Killing Floor 2. It’s a fun way to spend a few evenings, or as a deeper alternative to Call of Duty’s zombies mode. Even though you’ve probably seen much of what it offers already, it’ll have you cackling as you paint the walls red with a few of your friends. They sure don't make them like this anymore, but then I'm not sure they ever made them like this, period. The new Doom from id Software is an unexpected, masterful combination of hectic old-school shooting, smartly modern design conventions, sharp wit, and a lighthearted reverence, or more accurately, irreverence, for the hallowed legacy of Doom. At least three of those items aren't things I ever expected to see in another Doom game. After eight protracted years of development at id--a time period that included an acquisition by Bethesda, the departure of some legendary founders, and a complete reboot of this game's very nature--you could forgive even the most diehard Doom fan for setting their expectations pretty low. In light of all that, it's astounding this game ended up being as good as it is, but make no mistake: this is one of the most exhilarating, amusing, satisfying shooter campaigns in years, maybe ever.Each world also contains a unique boss battle. These encounters challenge you in ways no other sequence in the adventure does. I don't want to spoil the battles, but I enjoyed every one of them to the point where it's difficult to pick a favorite. Unfortunately, some of the battles are difficult to find; two of them are even hidden behind seemingly inconsequential side missions.With an upgradable arsenal of autocannons, heavy weapons, and sleek maneuvering around asteroids and other craft, you unleash hell on the enemies of the Emperor. The concept is simple and so are the missions, tasking the player to destroy enemy ships, defend allied assets, or run escort duty. Dogfighting in your craft with enemy fighters zipping around asteroids is intense fun, and missions are a quick restart if you run into an errant piece of space debris. The constant pace of combat is immersive and exciting, with the threat of enemy reinforcements always moments away, forcing you to complete your task and warp away before more difficult opponents join the fray.Beyond their similarly melancholy backdrops, the connections between Nier: Automata and the original Nier are peripheral (but present for fans). Anyone can jump in with this title, and developer Platinum Games has ensured that the combat system is accessible to players of all skill levels. It looks a lot like the stylish action of Bayonetta – also from Platinum – with your characters performing flashy dodges while executing a variety of ranged and melee attacks. The format occasionally switches to a few different takes on the top-down shooter genre, making you maneuver through a screen full of projectiles. These departures are neat, but are more like minigames than fully featured encounters. The core battle system is fast-paced, third-person action that provides simple fun, but a lack of meaningful progression prevents the gameplay from being satisfying over the long haul.Cerebral and often disturbing, Torment is a rabbit hole of significant depth, where you can get lost in improbable imaginings of warped realities and existential angst. If you can wrap your head around a non-linear narrative all about consciousness, identity, and memory, Torment is a riveting departure from expectation.Every Monday we send Brendan to scout the early access ruins for hidden treasures. This week, the careful Viking tactics of Northgard [official site], This is Blainn, below. He’s just killed a Wyvern. He’s my best mate because I gave him and his giant pals, the Jötunn, enough food to last a lifetime. They reckon we in the Goat clan are excellent humans and now Chief Blainn is fighting alongside us in our hoofed conquest of the whole land. This is one endgame that comes in Northgard, a rock-solid RTS about allocating and reallocating your Viking workforce in just the right way. Technically this match ended over an hour ago, when my opponent reached a “wisdom victory”. But it’s a testament to Northgard’s foundations that, when given the option to leave or continue following my defeat, I happily clicked “keep playing”.One of the most welcome changes is almost immediately apparent. While the past two console entries (Skyward Sword and Twilight Princess) had painfully long introductory sequences, this swings hard in the other direction. Link wakes up, briefly talks to a mysterious old man, and is exploring an open world and solving puzzles within minutes. It’s essentially the difference between “talk to everyone on this sky island for six hours” and “It’s dangerous to go alone! Take this.”Essentially a new spin rendition of on-rails, light-gun shooters like Time Crisis and House Of The Dead, Robo Recall has you playing an agent who works for Roboready, a large corporation in an unnamed city that manufactures servant robots. The robots suddenly start going haywire and begin attacking citizens. You step in to recall them by destroying them and collecting their chips in whatever way you see fit.You can also physically move around the space with your feet, which is something the majority of shooters in VR don’t let you do. Movement is limited – more baby steps and leaning than running about guns blazing – but it gives you a surprising amount of options to use against enemies. For example, you might literally stoop in real life to duck beside a table in the game and then scooch to the left to avoid a knife swing by an approaching opponent so you can deliver an uppercut a second later.At first glance, Fire Emblem Heroes seems meaty. A surprisingly lengthy story campaign exists as a tutorial mode and an excuse for you to fight against fan-favorites from the series, like Chrom from Awakening and Takumi from Fates. It’s not well-written, even by Fire Emblem’s clunky standards, but it does its job well enough, getting you from battle to battle quickly and giving you a villain to go up against.Full Throttle Remastered [official site] is the return of perhaps the most under-appreciated of the classic 90s LucasArts adventures. Double Fine’s remastering will hopefully go a long way to seeing it gain a reputation among a new generation. Here’s wot I think:, , There’s a temptation to take my review of Day Of The Tentacle Remastered, then Find/Replace “DOTT” for “Full Throttle”. Double Fine are onto a good thing here, taking some of the best loved games of the 1990s, redrawing the art, remixing the sound, and releasing them in working condition for modern PCs. May they not stop at LucasArts games, and do the rest of the industry too. It can feel difficult to add much more to the discussion, because if you hate the new art but love the new sound, switch the first off and the second on. It’s Full Throttle, it’s the same great-but-flawed adventure, the same gorgeously detailed but far too short tale of biker Ben in a future world where cars no longer have wheels., Then of course it occurs to me not everyone is ancient. While there’s pretty much no excuse for not knowing about Day Of The Tentacle and Sam &amp; Max: Hit The Road, it’s far more feasible that someone not born before the 90s would have entirely missed Full Throttle. Not because it didn’t succeed – it was one of LucasArt’s most successful adventures, selling well over a million copies, ten times what they’d expected. But it’s the one that’s mentioned after DOTT, S&amp;M, Grim Fandango, Fate Of Atlantis, and of course the Monkey Island series. It can lay claim to a greater place in people’s memories than LOOM, sure, but it’s fair to say it hasn’t received the long-term adulation given elsewhere. And that’s not really fair., Still, in the context of a mass market video game, the sort where players are routinely asked to sympathize with killers because their cause is justified by one of a few interchangeable, focus-tested backstories, Mafia III's attempts to dig into the structural oppression of its era, and the ways in which that informs both Lincoln and Cassandra's choices, feel like a minor revelation. So often games seem content to wear the skin of political oppression, without delving too deeply into the realities of it. Mafia III doesn't do that. It lends weight to its story by painting its primary characters as deeply flawed, even sometimes believable human beings. Even its most cartoonishly vile personalities--of which there are a few--don't feel too far beyond the kinds of hateful mouthpieces we frequently see in today's political arena.In addition to Laika, you encounter other dinosaurs in a variety of shapes and sizes, which is my favorite part of the experience. Looking at huge, prehistoric beasts in virtual reality is cool, no matter how clumsy the framework around them is. However, apart from scanning these wild creatures to unlock tidbits of information, you can’t do much with the dinosaurs. They usually just block your way, and you need to sneak around them or scare them off. Even Laika is effectively useless; you’re given tutorials on how she works early on, but then you only use her in a handful of situations. It feels like someone just forgot about Laika and neglected to implement stuff for her to do.You earn cash (“dosh,” in the game’s weird parlance) by killing enemies. Once a round is successfully completed, there’s a mad dash to the Trader Pod to refresh supplies. These automated kiosks are scattered around the maps, but only one is active at a time – a clever way to discourage players from turtling around an area for the duration of a match. A nice blend of powerful weapons is available, though you have to keep an eye on your carrying capacity; try to haul too much around, and it slows you down. For the lazies out there, you can also have the game automatically handle your purchases, an option that I found worked well overall. From the moment I saw Trico – injured and bound – the creature seemed alive in a way games have never captured. From its roars and apprehension as you approach to how its chest moves when it breathes, details large and small make the improbable beast seem real. The team clearly studied a veritable menagerie – dogs, cats, birds – to create Trico’s captivating mannerisms. Depending on the situation, it exhibits playfulness, protectiveness, terror, and a broad range of other responses – all communicated through uncanny animation.Mass Effect: Andromeda is a marked improvement over its predecessors in two areas: graphics and gunplay. The Frostbite engine proves itself quite capable of rendering the best-looking alien locales in Mass Effect history, and the shooting is more nimble and varied than it's ever been. In every other way--assembling a crew of engaging characters, meeting exotic aliens with intriguing stories to tell, flying around in your own starship solving problems big and small in a galaxy colored in shades of gray; in other words all the things that make Mass Effect unique and memorable--Andromeda takes one, two, or three steps back. It's also an utter mess in a technical sense. There are a few enjoyable moments here and there, and over time you can see the skeletal framework of a better game start to emerge, but given the heights Mass Effect has reached in the past, it's hard to believe this is what we've been waiting five years for.Mellow mode, which is geared toward younger players, gives Yoshi wings and lets him fly through levels. On 3DS, a collection of Poochy Pups now follow Yoshi to help find secrets and can be used as yarn balls so you never run out of throwable items. The pups are cute, and a mode that lets my young daughter (who hasn’t mastered platforming yet) enjoy the cute visuals without getting frustrated is welcome.In short, new Doom plays like classic Doom, but with some modern twists. The big one is the "glory kill," a feature that lets you stagger any monster after putting a certain amount of damage into them, and then launch into a canned execution move that one-hit-kills them. Half an hour with the game allayed my fears that this feature was a concession to mainstream accessibility, for the simple reason that glory kills generate small amounts of health and armor. This makes them an essential part of the give-and-take of Doom's super-fast combat; do you dart into the fray for a glory kill to get a little health back, and risk getting mobbed by all the other enemies around? Similarly, the iconic chainsaw now requires fuel, which initially seemed... dumb. But every chainsaw kill generates a ton of ammo drops, so you have to use it judiciously and save it for when you need to pump your guns back up. There's a satisfying interplay between the benefits of guns, chainsaw, and glory kills that, when combined with the other ways Doom's combat has added to and improved on that of its predecessor, makes the fights in this game excitingly tactical.The Nintendo logo followed by Mario’s mustachioed face on my iPhone screen is a visual I didn’t think I would ever see. On the few occasions Mario has left the comfort of a Nintendo platform, it ended in disaster. It’s impossible to ignore the vast number of smartphone users, however, so he finally acquiesced to a mobile move. Super Mario Run is thankfully not a disaster on iOS. In fact, it left me wanting more, to a fault.After a couple of hours, I allowed myself one last question mark. I hoofed it in the icon's direction, but it took forever. The cliffs were unforgiving, and my jetpack hadn't been suitably upgraded by this point. You could see where the procedural generation had borked up in places, as giant, yet unusually slender outcroppings of rock, which looked like the result of anything but nature, appeared sometimes completely free of gravity, floating peculiarly above the world. Storms kept hitting, but finally, as the last one broke, I saw the outline of my final destination. It was another monolith.Your challenges won’t always come in the form of high-level enemies. My adventures off the beaten path sometimes came to an end when I found myself in the freezing cold without proper gear. Link would shiver and take damage until I had to teleport to safer ground and rethink my approach. Before you find new gear that helps you combat weather, you can fight the elements by cooking. It’s an imprecise and somewhat silly system, but it’s fun to experiment and toss a bunch of ingredients into a pot and hope for the best. You begin to learn the general formula for success after you screw up and create barely edible meals on enough occasions. If I knew I was heading into a cold region of the map, I’d gain some heat resistance by mixing spicy peppers into various meat and fruit dishes. If I was about to take on a difficult enemy, I’d make a few meals that utilized defense-boosting mushrooms and heart-restoring radishes.This narrative-driven adventure draws players in by allowing them to explore the town of Possum Springs and reconnect with Mae’s past. Upon her return, she begins to notice ominous happenings that tie into the ghostly folklore of the town, and soon her and a group of friends set out to find the truth. This tale unfolds gradually as players establish a daily in-game routine – interacting with friends, venturing into town, causing trouble – but Night in the Woods rewards your patience as it gradually brings the threads together.If you ever get stuck on a mission, you have the option to drop down the difficulty, but it’s much more fun to call in help through the drop-in/drop-out cooperative play. This feature is available in all campaign missions, the game’s asymmetric sniper vs. spotter Overwatch mode, and the intense round-based survival mode. Attacking a campaign mission with a friend also significantly cuts down on the time it takes to complete these long missions, since players can split up and track separate objectives.Unfortunately, the locations are too big for their own good. Like previous games, the new Hitman offers up a bevy of creative opportunities to snuff your targets. However, the enormous areas exacerbate all of the series’ weaknesses. Pulling off an elaborate kill means learning the layout of a labyrinthine environment, finding the necessary items for your scheme (which is now like finding a specific needle in a stack of needles), figuring out guard routes, acquiring the right disguises, and oftentimes maneuvering your target into the correct location by completing some inane secondary objective. It’s an inordinate amount of prep work for a series that already demands a lot of patience. Narcosis casts you as a man in a diving suit looking for a way to jerry-rig a way back to the surface after the underwater station he works in floods, killing most of the crew. The story is told mostly through natural, well-acted dialogue in which a narrator delves into the specifics of what happened before and after the events of game. These voiceovers deftly convey the pragmatism, single-mindedness, and survivor’s guilt that come with working in such a dangerous profession.Few opening acts scream reinvention more than Resident Evil 7’s. Instead of pumping lead into zombies and creatures born of man-made viruses, the player is isolated and hunted by a deadly apparition. The series has always relied on scientific explanation for its grotesqueries, but with objects moving on their own and ghostly beings flashing in and out of reality, the introductory moments are clearly supernatural – or that’s what Capcom wants you to believe. The first taste of this adventure doesn’t embody Resident Evil; it feels like a new experience designed to feed off of player senses and fears in a different way. The atmosphere is tense, unsettling, overly gory, and makes for a hell of a beginning to a game, especially when you see how it all comes together.That’s the key difference between Rise & Shine and other games that revel in player death like Dark Souls or Ninja Gaiden. In those titles, you learn something from each death, and apply that knowledge to improve your next attempt. That happens here to a minor extent, but the element of chance plays a heavier role. You can only learn so much about the enemy configurations before you just need them to not converge in a particular way, especially in the final sections. Without escalating depth or twists on the gameplay, I never felt skilled when I won a hard battle. I only felt lucky.It starts like this: What if the computing revolution sprouted out of North Korea in the late 1970s, with the Apple-like Apex Corporation eventually becoming a massive player in worldwide consumer, industrial, and military technologies? Driven bankrupt by foreign wars and poor economic policy, the US goes deep into debt to a booming North Korea, and when they fail to pay down their loans, North Korea comes to collect. America readies a defense, but there’s a problem: Our military hardware all runs on Apex technology, and Apex technology has a backdoor built into it, allowing the North Korean government to flip a switch and win the war. Whoops.The catch is that a lot of the race events get pretty repetitive. Each one initially opens up with exhibition races as the main event, and a rivals mode that lets you race the same course in a time attack mode. Eventually the track opens up for championships, which mostly just lets you race the same course again with the same kinds of car and class options, but you have to bundle it up with other courses to build a multi-race championship. I found that to be overly redundant.The core game and missions can be completed in just a few hours, but many additional unlocks and challenges can keep the journey through space rolling for those seriously looking for more. Short length is not necessarily a negative point to a game, but it’s a noticeable detriment here, offering a tiny taste of what a full-fledged title could be within the same framework and strong mechanics.Pixel Privateers [official site] is a lost-in-space roguelikeish that’s focused on interplanetary ground missions and loot-showers rather than interstellar survival. Though its title and appearance suggest cynical faux-retromancy, underneath that mercenary skin there’s plenty going on., Says pixel in the title, has pixel art in the game. Me, I’ve got pixel ennui, but nothing here is objectionable. In fact, the environment art shoots for a bit more detail and is far more attractive than the squat block-head characters. Said characters may be borrowing liberally from other sci-fi too. Was that a Jawa I saw? And I swear I just shot a pack of Borg…, That’s the pixel element done, so now I can natter about the game proper. It’s a team-based, side-on Diablo, only rather than an open map you’re selecting away missions from your spaceship. In between these, you manage a quartet of resources to fund both upgrades and survival, with the emphasis heavily on the former., , In every mission, you’ll collect a shower of various loot (let’s be honest, if this hadn’t had ‘pixel’ in the title, it would have plumped for ‘loot’), much of which is little more than junk, but some of which gives your team a meaningful offensive or defensive boost. , Others still can actively change one of your unit’s class – not merely allowing you to stick a hammer in her hand and switch a unit from ranged to melee, but also add off-hand items that might make a medic into an engineer or scout. Truth be told, this isn’t a major element of play, as by and large you want to keep every major role filled by someone so will likely just typecast your whole squad, but it means you get to play with pretty much any new toy you might find. There’s a touch of the Borderlands to it, in that you’re regularly getting drops that noticeably mix things up, though mostly for kicks., You can’t equip new findings or level up until you’ve survived a mission and headed back to your spaceship, at which point it’s a carnival of upgrades. Slap the best new goodies onto your team, spend ability points to improve their aptitude in ye olde strength/agility/stamina/intelligence fayre, and spend ‘research points’ on team-wide bonuses. If that weren’t enough, you also have the option to spend resources on cloning particularly tasty gear or, in an excellent twist, members of your team. , , It’s not strictly necessary as you can recruit externally and rename anyone at any time, but you can use cloning both to save a backup copy of your most treasured squadies (if you’re playing in the optional permadeath mode) and to fill your ranks with the best possible new recruits – exact duplicates of people you already trust. I played one game with a squad composed of only the same person, each with a different number after their name. Granted, their various kit made them all look different on the battlefield, but I was tickled pink nonetheless. I feel that this is an idea that a new XCOM or Syndicate game could make fine thematic use of. , Combat, the main element of Pixel Privateers, is less successful than is the endless tinkering outside of it. Which is to say, it’s mostly a matter of frantic right-clicking, with a bit of hotbar skills action, which can feel pretty brainless. The exception to this is when a given fight, such as against a boss, gets significantly tougher, in which case there’s a tactical pause system whereby you can hit Space and tell your characters exactly what to do rather than simply spam ’em at the nearest enemy., Sometimes it does actively require this, and if you’re playing on hard mode with permadeath enabled you’ll certainly use it a whole lot more. Though more involved than spamming, I don’t know that I’d go all the way to saying it’s much more interesting. You’re just scrolling through characters and activating their abilities in pause. , , Mission structures can be tiresome too, such as having to find five specific rooms (not difficult, just requires a bit of trudging) then use your scanner to laboriously find up to five anomalies (the riveting likes of ‘broken pipe’) in each of them. Same goes for, say, freeing three sets of three prisoners. It’s just a looping structure that’s there for the endless quest to level up and find loot. , There are meta-game goals involving finding magic crystals, hopping to new systems and increasing your squad size, and you need to keep a weather eye on your ship’s fuel as it flies between planets, in addition to managing the resources required for buying or cloning new stuff. , , Most of all, though, Pixel Privateers is shoot’n’loot. It’s playful and polished enough to make its shallowness work – treat it as a while-away-your-time game, not the grand tension of FTL or the exercise in punishing perseverance of Darkest Dungeon. , Pixel Privateers knows exactly what it’s doing, and though it’s about as deep as a microwave lasagne, it’s almost impossible not to lose yourself to it for a few evenings.Repetition creeps into story missions as well thanks to some rookie design mistakes. Many multi-part missions lack checkpoints, forcing you to complete the entire job from scratch if your plans go awry. Ubisoft Paris even replays cutscenes at the beginning of these missions, forcing you to skip ahead. Given the time it takes to complete Wildlands, the only antidote to the feeling of déjà vu is the creative approach you bring to the experience. Tactical experimentation was key to my enjoyment. Mae has bizarre out-of-body experiences through her dreams, which focus on exploration. In most of these dreamscapes, you platform your way through shadowy parts of town, searching for four different musicians to complete a puzzle. These are never difficult to complete, but are breathtakingly atmospheric as an eclipsed moon hangs above, and apartment windows glow in the nighttime. To make matters worse, a stamina bar is tied to your game. A full stamina bar is worth 50 points. Early on, battles require two points but as the game goes on, the stamina cost goes up. It takes five minutes to regenerate a single point, which means it’s easy to run that bar down to zero in a short period of time, leaving you unable to play unless you use a stamina potion or spend an orb to regenerate the bar fully. Stamina potions can be gifted to you and orbs are won in battle, but orbs are also your currency for unlocking characters, so Heroes is unsubtly trying to strong arm you into buying orbs with real currency in order to keep the stamina up. It’s a dubious-bordering-on-insidious system that only gets worse as the game goes on, since orbs are harder to find and you commonly draw duplicates. The stamina bar is a huge drain on Heroes’ playability, especially in the later stages; I would gladly pay for a “full version” of the game to eliminate the mechanic altogether.The first few hours of Persona 5 feel like settling in with the opening chapters of a massive novel. Even though you don’t know the characters well or understand where the plot is going, you can feel the weight behind the narrative like hundreds of pages waiting to be read. As new threads and mechanics are introduced, that depth and sense of intent persist, and Persona 5 takes the requisite time to do its many ambitions justice. The result is an uncommonly complex and satisfying RPG in terms of both story and gameplay, and when you factor in its impeccable stylishness, Persona 5 is hard to put down.Psychonauts in the Rhombus of Ruin marks the return of Raz, Milla, Sasha, Lilly, and the rest of the psychically gifted crew, though it’s not completely triumphant. While reentering Double Fine’s imaginative world is great, it’s disappointing as both a VR experience and a Psychonauts spinoff.Robo Recall doesn’t feel like a tech demo or minuscule offering of a promising concept. It’s the only VR game I’ve walked away from thinking I was satisfied with the amount and variety of content available. Its brand of action is unique and entertaining, and I haven’t played anything like it before. Robo Recall isn’t just a great VR game. It’s a great action game, period. In 2009, when From Software’s Demon’s Souls first arrived, it introduced a new formula of action RPG that challenged fans with its punishing structure as much as it intrigued them with its obscurant style of storytelling. Now, seven years later, the Souls series is among the most popular franchises around, and many of its major innovations have spread across the landscape of gaming. With Dark Souls III, From smartly seems to recognize that the series is ready for its final act. Unfortunately, while DS3 is narratively and mechanically a solid conclusion to the series, some major bugs dramatically hurt the overall experience on PC. When Dark Souls II launched, there was some question as to whether it was a direct, narrative sequel to its numerical predecessor. Any doubt of canonical connection is immediately dispensed with in Dark Souls III, as it quickly sets stakes that long term fans of the series will understand: The first fire that keeps humanity from fading into an abyssal darkness is fading yet again, and the Lords of Cinder--those who had previously done the job of keeping the flame lit--are shirking their duties. As “the Unkindled,” you must bring them into line by doing what you do in every Souls game: Exploring the treacherous ruins of fallen kingdoms, taking down monstrous bosses, and feverishly reading item descriptions to piece together the Whos, Whats, and Whys of everything that’s happening. Though the Souls games have a reputation for challenge, the truth is that they’ve always been pretty clever about subtly introducing complexity to the player. In some ways, though, Dark Souls 3 feels like it starts at Act 2, tossing you into the deep end much faster than previous Souls games. Within the first half hour, you’ll face a challenging first boss, start planning your character build, and maybe even dig into the weapon upgrading system. It’s a smart decision, since many veteran players are familiar with the basics by now. This also allows players to concentrate immediately on the new stuff, especially the FP (Focus Points) mechanic. Shoved between the usual health and stamina meters is a new blue bar that is drained whenever players use spells or one of the special abilities attached to every weapon in the game. To keep that blue bar filled, players will have to dedicate part of their stack of healing Estus Flasks to a new type of potion (Ashen Estus Flasks) which can be used to recover that FP. The attacks fueled by FP range from powerful, guard crushing uppercuts to special movement techniques to strategy-shifting combat buffs, and testing out every FP ability I found contributed to the feeling of discovery that I always love in Dark Souls games. These special abilities also open the combat up even further, rewarding tactical consideration and mastery of your chosen weapon. There are, on the other hand, a number of ways in which Dark Souls 3 represents a less open, more constrained experience than its predecessors--or at least something that feels more constrained. While there’s a huge range of armor, weapons, and spells (including a number of fan favorites from past games), the stat system in DS3 really discourages wild, experimental builds (at least for the first playthrough). Heavy armor users will get knocked around a bit more than in the past, while enemies seem to bounce out of a staggered state more often. Sorceries, pyromancies, and miracles all feel weaker than ever, though as in Bloodborne, magic seems to have a bit more bite in New Game+. The result is that balanced, hybrid melee builds do the best throughout the first playthrough--which is great if, like me, that’s what you were planning on playing anyway. Otherwise, though, it could be rough. It isn’t only the stat builds that can seem constrained, though. While the world has the same geometrically-connected design that so many loved in the first Dark Souls, the opening areas seem more linear than previous games in the series. In actuality, each of the opening zones does have a number of ways through (and out), but it’s not something that is readily apparent in those early hours. Where Dark Souls 1 felt like an intricately designed vertical diorama and Dark Souls 2 was spread out on an impossibly broad plane, Dark Souls 3 gives the impression that it is a line, pulling you from one boss to another, towards finality. I can’t help but think that this is intentional. It’s no secret that Dark Souls 3 is being positioned as a finale to the series, and throughout the 35 or so hours I put into my first playthrough, there was a constant sense of impending resolution. Though it still primarily delivers its story through its sometimes-obscure use of environmental storytelling and item descriptions, Dark Souls 3 is also perhaps the most straightforward game in the series. You’ll find out what’s happened to some major players in the series’ lore, get confirmation (or denial) of long running fan theories, and even have some pretty metaphysical facts about the world established once and, maybe, for all. In some ways, this is a disappointment: At its best, Dark Souls has been an unanswered question. I mean this narratively (Whatever happened to Gwyn’s third child, anyway?), but mechanically, too, as each game offers new combat, exploration, and stat-building challenges to solve. But it’s been seven years since Demon’s Souls first confused and intrigued. I’ve gotten better not only at the particular obstacles presented in each game, but also at the process of quickly adapting and learning how to solve this whole subgenre of action RPG. Ah, um, I... My sword seems to be, ah... You know what, nevermind. This is fine. Everything is fine.Playing through songs using this system is fun at first, but it falls flat quickly. Unlike the series' classic gameplay, Rock Band VR's core gameplay doesn't feature the same nuance from song to song. This means that while a track like Stone Temple Pilots' "Plush" is drastically different from Dream Theater's "Pull Me Under" from both an instrumentation and a structural perspective, the gameplay does not reflect that massive gap between those two tracks. You can improvise to make them sound more distinct, but the act of actually playing those songs does not feel as different as it should.Whether you are raiding a small base for new weapon parts or playing a story mission, Ghost Recon Wildlands shares many basic traits with its predecessors. The tactical combat rewards carefully planning your approach, making the drone your best friend. Identifying enemy positions, alarms, and mission targets opens a variety of strategic options for experimentation. This is where cooperative play shines. Among the bigger changes is the optional nature and the structure of Breath of the Wild’s traditional dungeons. Like they’ve usually been, these are longer, puzzle-driven affairs that end in boss fights. That’s where the similarities end, however. The “get the map, the compass, the big key, and the dungeon item” format is completely gone. Those last three things are completely absent, and you’re given a map at the very beginning of each dungeon. How you interact with the dungeons themselves is a puzzle element unique to these areas, and I don’t want to spoil the specifics here.Jumping between bar chords, power chords, arpeggios, and muted arpeggios is fun, especially when the song breaks those progressions up with a solo. The guitar-solo mechanics borrow heavily from the mechanics of Rock Band 4's improvisational solo mechanics, so if you've played that mode, you know what to expect. However, players looking for a true challenge like Guitar Hero and mainline Rock Band games might be disappointed; instead of the satisfaction of completing a song, the main thrill of Rock Band VR comes with making songs sound good through your improvisation (trust me, you can make some classic songs sound like garbage since the guitar sounds mirror your play).You are an enforcer and arbiter of the Overlord, whose armies seek to overwhelm and crush the last vestiges of resistance in a world that has already suffered hundreds of years of brutal rule. An opening campaign of harsh binary choices describes the first few years of the conquest, and it’s thrilling to see the ways seemingly minor choices in the introductory minutes dramatically shake up the rest of the story. For example, one soldier might recall the harsh judgment you refused her countrymen years earlier, and deny you crucial passage into a fort. Once you get into the meat of the tale, Tyranny is filled with fascinating characters shaped by the realities of their situation. In particular, the other leaders of the Overlord’s armies are brilliantly conceived – warped creatures of malice and cunning that act as great conversational foils to your ongoing adventure.Chapter 5 ends on a satisfying note, but Sierra has an epilogue in the works for those who bought the game’s Complete Edition. Sierra isn't sharing details on where the epilogue is set, how long of an experience it offers, or if it even includes playable content. In the meantime, The Good Knight feels like a conclusion.Metafictional satire is one of Thimbleweed Park’s stronger points, but Terrible Toybox overuses clever jabs pointing out genre tropes over the course of the game. This muddles up the main storyline later on and creates plot holes, warping other aspects of the narrative to feel meaningless. At its best, Thimbleweed shakes things up in creative ways, building on its classic foundation and veering off in surprising directions; it asks you to leave the game to search elsewhere in order to solve a puzzle, and prompts you to save your progress before pushing a button that results in a game over. The latter is a brilliant, satirical take on dead-ends in adventure games, which Thimbleweed Park adamantly avoids.Double Dragon IV has some nostalgia value for longstanding fans of the franchise or those that just want a glimpse of what brawlers looked like in times long gone, but it offers little in terms of compelling gameplay or interesting mechanics. I’m a big fan of seeing old series recapture glory, but in this case, Double Dragon is an experience better left in the past.While everyone is free to play games however they want and I wouldn't begrudge anyone who wants to follow a guide and just see what this game has to offer, I got a tremendous amount of satisfaction out of exploring The Witness prior to release, when no hints were even available. Playing The Witness in a vacuum--and feeling the occasional frustration and desperation that come with sometimes not knowing what the hell is going on--acts as a nice counterpart to the solitary feeling inherent to your time alone with the sometimes stifling quietude of the island. I can think back on a handful of puzzles whose solutions felt a little clumsy, or where I came away not exactly sure how I solved what I just solved, but the vast majority of the puzzle solutions are some satisfying mix of inventive, elegant, and clever that made me absolutely delight in working them out myself. All that said, I highly doubt I'll ever figure out everything myself, and I envision a rabid community effort getting underway to plumb all of this game's deepest secrets--and there are some that seem to be buried really deep--shortly after release, much like what happened with Fez. The Witness doesn't get quite as crypto-crazy as that game did--you aren't going to be deducing an entire system of writing or anything--but a lot of what there is to find and solve in this game is in the same spirit. To be fair, there were a few puzzles that simply left me to yell angrily at the television and confer with a couple of similarly confused other reviewers before I finally got what was going on hours or even days later. Serious frustration is inevitable in The Witness, but in the era of ubiquitous walkthroughs and video guides, I can't really fault a puzzle game that goes to the occasional extreme. If you enjoy the sort of game where you frequently place your brain on an anvil and then hammer away at it until you either break it or forge a deeper understanding, you'll find a whole lot to like about this game. Much has been made about the length of The Witness, and all that ballyhoo isn't for nothing. It's possible to see an ending of sorts after probably two or three dozen hours, but reaching that ending only requires you to solve a little over half of the game's numerous regions (though ironically, if you don't at least dabble in the types of puzzles in a handful of specific regions, you'll be ill-equipped to finish the game's brutal final area). Once you exit the tiny starting courtyard, the only thing gating your access to every nook and cranny of the island is your own knowledge, and you're free to solve whichever of those regions in whatever order you want. In practical terms, some of the areas are dramatically harder than others--and indeed some of them require you to learn the lessons of other areas before they'll even make sense--but it's easy enough to traipse back and forth between puzzles in different areas whenever you get stuck, so your path through the game will undoubtedly feel more organic than simply knocking down one area wholesale before moving on to another. On top of what's required to "finish" the game, there's also an almost baffling number of other puzzles to tackle in this game that seem to have no bearing on the main campaign, as it were. The game is constantly teasing you with other sorts of less conventional puzzles and hidden areas that don't fit into the familiar categories you've been working with, and frankly after probably 40 hours in The Witness I still don't know what the hell a lot of those puzzles do at all, nor how to solve them, nor how to open up quite a few of the optional buildings, caves, and passageways that I passed over when I first saw them. Without saying too much, the game also contains what might be my favorite take ever on the video game collectible. If you were to do all this stuff yourself without just looking up a guide to breeze you through it, I have no problem believing that 80 hour figure that's been floating around to be roughly accurate. The hindsight of having "finished" the game, and knowing how much more there is left to do, makes the recent hand-wringing about the game's $40 price tag seem especially absurd. If you're wondering why there's no mention about any sort of story in this review, well, there isn't any to discuss, really. Braid told the personal tale of a failed relationship--and the inherent biases of the people involved in it--in deliberate fits and starts that made you reflect on what it was you thought the game had been trying to say by the time you finished it. The Witness is way less focused by contrast. It's best described as a loose meditation on epistemology and spirituality (not to mention literal meditation), which takes the form of a bunch of stone statues scattered around the world that pantomime exaggerated actions, and voice recorders that rattle off quotations from various scientists, religious figures, and other thinkers throughout the ages. A couple of the quotations resonated with me on an individual basis--there's a touching Apollo astronaut's soliloquy that feels extra urgent in the context of the present day--but the ideas as presented are too scattered to form much in the way of obvious thematic intent, and more than once I was left thinking "OK, and...?" after listening to one of the lengthier voiceovers. Your interpretation of this stuff--or indeed, how much you even care about it--will largely depend on what you yourself bring to the game, and if you're feeling especially snide you could certainly dismiss it all as overly artsy or trying a bit too hard. For my part I wasn't really put off by what the game was going for, despite sometimes feeling like I was being bludgeoned with a philosophy textbook, and all that quiet reflection certainly gives the game its own specific feel, for better or worse. Actually, the worst thing you could say about this stuff is that it's easily ignored (you don't even have to activate any of the voice logs), and given everything else The Witness does marvelously well, it's not hard to forgive it when its more self-indulgent tendencies assert themselves. As much as I hate myself for saying this game is more about the journey than the destination... well, it is. It's hard to believe nearly eight years have passed since Braid came along and helped elevate ideas about what smaller indie games could be, and while I don't think I'd say any game is worth waiting eight years for, there's also not a whole lot I'd change about The Witness or the time I spent with it. Slowly and deliberately exploring this resplendent island, picking my way through its elaborately constructed secrets, and occasionally bathing in the warm glow of revelation all cohered into a singular experience I'm not going to forget, or even stop thinking about, anytime soon. The Witness isn't just an example of how video games can be similar to other creative works; it's also a great reminder of the special things only games can do.Each sport features solid mechanics that makes competing initially exciting. Golf and soccer are great to jump into, but my favorite sports were tennis and baseball. Those two sports not only feature the soundest mechanics, but they easily lend themselves to arcade-style action. Sadly, even those sports end up being little more than diversions. After just a few matches, the addictive loop of improvement slows dramatically as your skills plateau.The crowds are once again significantly smaller than the players on the field, making it look like the entire Smurf village decided to take in a game. Players are also reluctant to turn their bodies, and instead rotate their heads like demonic beings. It looks terrifying. Most of the animations are rough, and the lack of transitional animations makes it look like a glitchy mess with players automatically appearing in different stances or positions.Halo Wars 2’s story is the most compelling aspect of Creative Assembly’s console-friendly RTS. The characters’ depth made me want to learn more about them, and the pre-rendered cut scenes – produced by arthouse Blur – feature enough spectacle to fill a Summer blockbuster. Unfortunately, the narrative ends on a frustrating cliffhanger, which left me with uneven feelings about the story as a whole – and the rest of Halo Wars 2 is a similar mix of emotions.When selecting your characters, you must take into account their individual attributes. A balanced character like Yoshi might be a good foundation for your team, but you probably want to include a power hitter like Donkey Kong in your batting order in baseball, or a speed-demon like Baby Luigi as a forward in soccer. For baseball and soccer, you fill in the rest of your team with generic characters including Toads, Shy Guys, or Magikoopas. I enjoyed being able to draft a baseball team full of characters, each with different strengths to craft the perfect lineup. I wish that the other sports supported a similar layer of strategy, but they don't.To keep Resident Evil relevant, Capcom would need to shake up its formula just as they had done between its third and fourth entries. With Resident Evil 7, it’s clear that they went back to the drawing board once again and reconsidered core components of the franchise’s DNA. The end result is a resurrection of many of the elements that made the original games great, while at the same time introducing a new perspective and the best story yet.Horse racing stands out as the oddball of the group. With double jumps, boost pads, and obstacle-laden courses, horse racing is by far the most arcade-focused of an already loose and casual collection. Despite its wacky approach and dissonance with the other sports, I was surprised by how much I like horse racing thanks to its fast-paced loop of avoiding trees and hedges while collecting stars and carrots for energy. There is even an offshoot Stable mode where you can bond with your horse. I wasn't particularly drawn to Stable, but between caring for your horse, customizing it, and searching for items on walks, it's strange that this sub-mode of horse racing has more layers to it than any one sport included in Mario Sports Superstars.There’s no getting around that Full Throttle is a 22-year-old adventure game and still plays like it. The puzzles are occasionally frustrating. Your character moves at a slow pace, and some of cultural humor is outdated. Still, the quirks of the original game are as attractive today as they were then, and this version does a fine job smoothing out the rough edges, making Full Throttle Remastered a road trip worth taking. With Aer still somehow not out yet, I needs me some more flying about a pretty place games. Spotting Copoka [Steam page] in the waterfall of Steam releases I wondered if it might keep me going. Not really, no. Here’s wot I think:, Copoka ends up as one of those nice ideas that just doesn’t quite come together. I’ve argued before that there need to be far more games about flying around as a bird, so it would be churlish for me to entirely dismiss this. The problem is, there are too many problems, from the bugginess of the game, the lack of proper satisfaction with the flight controls, and a narrative concept that doesn’t hold together., , On some levels I want to be more generous – this is a small indie game costing less than a pint of warm ale, and in many ways very pleasant. But on another I’m really annoyed by how it has described itself:, “Copoka is an open-world exploratory indie game where you play as a bird flying around a city looking for twigs to build your nest.”, Now that’s game I wanted to play. That is not a description of Copoka. It is with some bitter irony that I notice the developers are called “Inaccurate Interactive”., This is in fact a very small enclosed city, which you can see all of from your starting point in the middle, with no meaningful notion of exploration at all. There’s nothing hidden, nothing revealed by looking over there, no openness in any understanding of the term. It feels like what might be the first level of a larger game, instead used four times in a row as the only level of a very small game. Again, small indie game – but bad description., , But take that limited (although sprawling, and very lovingly detailed) city and then let me play as a bird seeking out sticks and twigs to build a nest! That sounds adorable and splendid. But it’s not that either. It’s in fact a game about flying toward building-sized sparkling lights around the city and picking up four lots of four shiny objects, and carrying them back to your already-built nest. Yes, one of these four madly twinkling objects in each round is a twig, but no, that’s not what was described. Along the way there are 12 bonus feathers to fly into, which speed you up (barely noticeably), but I found ten of these without trying, and an eleventh after a quick look., The real point to it all is to overhear conversations between denizens of the city as you float about. It seems there’s a fascistic leader in place in what appears to perhaps be a banana republic, with a burgeoning rebellion planning to rise up. Each time you collect four items the story advances forward (with no noticeable change beyond the conversations taking place), so you can listen in again by flying near clouds of white feathers. But fly away from them and they stop or fade out, which is utterly infuriating since there’s nothing to actually do during these unanimated chats. You just have to sit your bird there, being bored for a bit., , The characters in the world are a lovely design, and the whole place is very pretty. It has some great music, and it plays in dynamically dependent upon where you’re flying in the city. But it’s glitchy as all hell, flight not letting you satisfactorily swoop and swish as you might like, with your bird unable to take off from far too many places it can land, and clearly there is such a high expectation that you’ll get stuck clipped into the world that it monitors for it and respawns you after a few seconds. But I think more problematic is the story, an attempt to, I dunno – discuss? – regime change and totalitarianism, but I guess the polite word to describe it is “sophomoric”. The more accurate might be “bad”. In the end, it felt to me more of a piece of apologism for a dictatorship! I think that might be more to do with being badly handled than deliberate political intent. But still., Again, so much of this criticism really wouldn’t feel relevant if the game’s own storefront (if it has its own website, I cannot find it) didn’t describe something totally other than what’s being sold. This is not an open world game, there’s absolutely no exploring, and you don’t gather twigs to build a nest.Planet Coaster is almost a misnomer. While roller coasters are certainly a star attraction for any theme park, that’s only one element in Planet Coaster’s larger diorama. Frontier Developments (of Roller Coaster Tycoon fame) has created a complete theme park simulator that allows you to customize little details (like the speed of your tilt-a-whirl) while managing a staff and funding advertisement campaigns to attract the masses across the country.In one early cutscene, Lincoln visits a country club at the behest of the Marcanos, and as he walks up alongside Sal's son Georgi, a woman hurries past them, clutching at her purse and nervously eyeing Lincoln as he goes. It's tempting to point out that any preconception this woman might have about Lincoln is ultimately proved true. He is a criminal, prone to violence and theft. But at the same time, consider that he's there with Georgi, the brash, clearly unconcerned son of the city's most notorious crime boss. It's well-established in the game that the Marcanos are a visible entity in the city. People know who they are, and likely know what they are. Nobody at the country club seems afraid of Sal or Georgi, but in strolls Lincoln, and suddenly all eyes are fixated. It doesn't matter what terrible things you're into in New Bordeaux, so long as you're of the right complexion.The moments Holmes shares with his daughter are fleeting, and mostly occur in interstitial sequences between cases. This relationship is a central plot hook, so I found it strange to see it visited so infrequently. On the other hand, it strengthens the sense of separation from the daughter and amplifies concerns of Holmes’ addiction to his job. It’s a subtle storytelling touch that pays off huge in developing Holmes as a conflicted character.As a creation kit, Planet Coaster is impressive. Unfortunately, as a management sim, the game feels like a slow ride on a carousel. You oversee everything from the price of your ticket sales, to the amount of money you spend on advertisements, to what new ride technology to research next; but making sure you have enough janitors to clean up after your guests isn’t nearly as exciting as building a death-defying new coaster. A Career Mode lets you jump through a series of pre-made parks and complete a series of tasks to rejuvenate each park, but these objectives are often boring or tedious, so you’re better off creating your own park from scratch.It's as difficult to imagine a game that met the loftiest of those expectations as it is easy to understand why people would be disappointed with the game that No Man's Sky ultimately turned out to be. At its core, No Man's Sky is a game of exploration. You jump from star system to star system in your own little ship, landing on planets and moons and leaving your personal stamp on them as you go. The constant feeling of discovery is its greatest asset, but that discovery often feels in service of far less interesting ends. Both its fleeting attempts at narrative, and economically-driven gameplay systems, are fairly terrible at respecting the player's time. And yet they're seemingly what are meant to propel the player forward in No Man's Sky. Resource gathering, crafting, inventory management, robot fighting, ship combat, it's all in there, wrapped in a veneer of Greater Purpose that points you toward the center of the galaxy, a place you are meant to go because the developers felt the game needed a place everyone is supposed to go. But taken individually, none of these things are particularly compelling. They're all skeletons of systems that basically work together, but not completely. Even the procedural generation, the heart of this whole crazy endeavor, starts showing its seams long before you even start thinking about those hypothetical "hundreds of hours" of gameplay.Tethering vehicles to each other or the environment was one of the funniest elements of Just Cause 2, and the enhanced tether in this entry really opens up the possibilities, You can now shoot out numerous tethers at once, and retract them at any time by holding the left trigger. This functionality is responsible for many of my favorite moments in the game, from causing fighter jets to crash into each other to launching a dead cow cartoonishly far off of a cliff. It’s good that causing mayhem in Just Cause 3 feels so good, because that’s what you’ll be doing for essentially the entire game. Unlocking powerful late-game jets and helicopters is cool at first, but then you realize that they’re just another way to get from settlement to settlement to destroy the same fuel tanks, generators, towers, and satellite dishes that you see ad nauseam throughout the entire game. A couple of the game’s 25 story missions incorporate some nice setpiece moments, but the majority of them don’t do much to differentiate themselves from the typical “hey, blow this thing up” routine (one odd outlier involved nothing more than driving a truck filled with wine casks for about two minutes). For a game that's almost wholly based around creating gigantic explosions at every turn, the PlayStation 4 version of the game has a difficult time keeping up when things get really chaotic. While liberating towns or destroying especially large items, the frame rate frequently dips dramatically. I never felt like I lost control over Rico or missed shots (thanks in part to the game's generous auto-aim), but it was disheartening to see these technical issues considering how smoothly the PC version ran even during the most explosive situations. A one-note experience isn’t necessarily a bad thing when it delivers on that one thing exceptionally well. Just Cause 3 has occasional physics problems and a lack of variety, but it’s fantastic if you just want to drop into a world and immediately start blowing it up. Upon completion of the story, you can even “re-oppress” individual settlements purely for the purpose of blowing them up all over again. It’s hard to complain about the gameplay feeling samey considering I’ve spent over 40 hours in the game and I’m still looking forward to going back and taking out more settlements. Avalanche clearly knows what this game is all about, and you should too if you want to give it a shot. If you’re aware of the game’s limitations and you’re still eager to blow an open world straight to hell, few games do it better than Just Cause 3.The big challenge for the Gravity Rush series has been fitting structured objectives into all the falling and wondrous locales. Gravity Rush 2 gives you plenty to do, but many of the story and side missions make the experience feel dated. Escort, eavesdropping, and stealth missions abound, and they often have you sauntering around on-foot instead of flying high, which feels like a waste of your abilities. You also have a number of missions where you need to find a small object or person within a large area by using a photo as reference, as well as missions where you have to talk to people to have them point you in the right direction, which feel arbitrary and frustrating.The multiplayer feels rough because your character isn't resilient at all, so having three way-too-murderous AI companions with you almost feels like cheating. Multiplayer takes those companions away from you and replaces them with human players. Though the game gives you some ways to direct players to the same objective, like fast travel and map marking, the in-game communication tools aren't especially effective. Jumping into random games felt like four players off doing their own things at times, though without the benefit of having your AI crew along as backup. Bring together an agreeable bunch of players that you might like to communicate with, and the game ends up being more enjoyable... though some of that is almost certainly due to the idea that playing anything with friends leads to a better time. The game itself still feels a little flat, but since you're going to be shooting enemies and shooting the shit with your friends, you'll probably just skip the boring cutscenes and get on with it. Rolling around the map, plowing through missions together is actually a pretty decent time. The stakes feel a little higher, since you can't fall back on your invincible crew of murderers whenever things go wrong. And unlike your AI friends, your real-life friends can mess up and break stealth. The game feels little short on weird, open-world hijinks, but if you like taking over Far Cry-like outposts with a team of friends... well, that's pretty much this entire game.Rock Band VR combines familiar conventions with enough new elements to make the experience novel and exciting for fans of the genre. Taking full advantage of the technology, Rock Band VR puts players in the first-person perspective with little UI clogging up your view, a departure from the view in mainline Rock Band games where the concert video-style presentation is background to the prominent note highway. Instead, you're free to look around the stage, with the only UI appearing in a chord guide that floats above the crowd, and a combo meter on the head of your guitar. This new approach plays into the strengths of virtual reality, removing the barrier that exists with previous series between the player and the screen. When a song I love like Foo Fighters' "Everlong" or Megadeth's "Hangar 18" comes on, it's difficult not to get into it. I found myself tapping my foot, nodding my head, and even holding the guitar in a more stylish manner during my favorite tracks.This sequence also paces itself completely differently from the rest of Mafia III's campaign. The prologue is a contained affair, with discreet areas to play that act as tutorials for the sorts of things you'll end up doing once the city opens up. Once Lincoln is set upon his mission, the entirety of New Bordeaux becomes explorable, though missions won't appear on the map until you've set your designs on a particular district.Unlike most of its open-world contemporaries, you don’t drive in Yakuza 0. Instead, you roam the streets of Tokyo and Osaka on foot. The campaign plays things appropriately straight, but the side activities are where the tone gets endearingly loopy. I enjoyed exploring the neighborhoods, tracking down secrets and stumbling across the often-bizarre side missions; I impersonated a TV producer, tracked down a pants-stealing bully, and helped a drug company test their experimental products. Thanks to the scale, you don’t get the sense that you’re seeing a lot of copy-and-paste buildings in the world, and an interactive restaurant, shop, or minigame waits on nearly every block.  Every boss is a highlight, forcing you to maneuver deftly or use every tool at your disposal in clever ways. In many of them, the dynamic of avoiding projectiles while waiting for a tell mixes well with the Metroid-esque tendency to use the newest weapon at your disposal. Not all of the fights work this way; one boss, a giant worm, adheres more closely to the “avoid bullets and shoot the weakpoint” school of boss design, but it’s still a fun fight. On the Switch, these shrines have the added benefit of being fantastic for portable play. This game can be a massive undertaking that benefits from long marathon sessions. On the other hand, these bite-sized shrines usually don’t take much time at all. If I’m on a bus and only have 20 minutes to play, I might not want to go on a lengthy quest into the wilderness. Knocking out a few shrines and upgrading my stamina is a perfectly reasonable task, however.My other complaints about Persona 5 are few. Given the acclaim Persona 4 received, I can understand Atlus’ desire to stick to a proven formula. However, sometimes Persona 5 goes beyond giving you more of a good thing; some parts feel outright copied from the last game, with new characters occupying old roles. That won’t matter if you’re new to the series (Persona 5 is a great place to start, by the way), but I was disappointed to see this entry return to the well for character concepts like “high-school detective prodigy” and “gruff-but-likable father-figure,” not to mention the whole “dungeons represent their owners’ psyches” conceit. These things are still handled well, but stand out in a field of concepts that are otherwise fresh.In season one, we took control of Lee Everett, a man who formed a touching bond with a little girl named Clementine. Season two allowed us to step into Clementine's shoes and experience the situation from a child's perspective. Telltale's third season puts us in the role of Javier, a man whose life has been on a downward spiral, with Clementine becoming more of a sidekick in his journey. In many ways, A New Frontier is about the mysteries surrounding the pair, and that's how Telltale keeps you intrigued.There were times in the opening hours that had me doubting if A Thief’s End was a necessary sequel. Nathan Drake’s story had tied up neatly at the end of Drake’s Deception, and this new entry goes out of its way to establish a new character that’s never been mentioned before in the series. As it turns out, Nathan has a brother. Sam Drake has been presumed dead for many years, but he suddenly reappears and complicates the more relaxed, civilian, and legal life that Nathan has settled into in the years since Uncharted 3. The stakes are higher than a simple treasure hunt this time around (because of storyline purposes that I won’t spoil in this review), and Nathan not-so-begrudgingly agrees to untuck half of his shirt once again for another globetrotting adventure.The worst example of this is Table Tennis. Its inclusion should be no surprise given the immense popularity of Wii Sports' tennis mini-game, but 1-2-Switch's insistence on not using the screen for its games (even though they still kind of do) downgrades it to a simple timing exercise. The strength or angle of your stroke doesn't matter because it's all a cheap charade. Who thought it would be a good idea to try and sell the Switch with a mini-game that is inferior in every way to its 11-year-old progenitor?The palaces are deliberately crafted, not randomly generated. This is a noteworthy evolution for the series, but within the larger RPG landscape, their designs still feel outdated. I appreciate the attempts to add dimension by letting players jump on top of some objects and hide behind others, but they aren’t consistent enough. You run though many flat, boxy corridors, and rarely encounter obstacles beyond simple puzzles and locked doors. Don’t interpret that to mean the palaces aren’t impressive in other ways; I love their visual and thematic executions tied to their owners’ twisted desires, but the act of exploring them is the least interesting part of the game.The rock-paper-scissors nature of fighting is still here, but now it remembers what attacks work best against which enemies for you. I’ve always struggled remembering the breakdown of strengths and weaknesses when it comes to Pokémon types, especially as new ones have been added over the years, so this reminder was invaluable to me. In the past, I would keep a document nearby listing all of the types’ strengths and weaknesses, and I am happy to leave it behind. Anything that keeps me playing the game and not putting it down to do research is a good thing.Not all of the content is familiar. All-new characters like the Inklings from Splatoon, Dry Bones, and Bowser Jr. join the pool of playable racers. Players can also hold two items now (like in Double Dash), adding an extra layer of strategy. However, the biggest addition to Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is the complete overhaul of Battle mode.Mafia hangs its entire structure on gunfights. Yes, stealth is an option, and it's usually possible to lure a few dimwitted enemies to their doom just by whistling from around the corner and gutting them before they have time to react. But most situations still require at least a few bullets fired, and the game seems heavily tuned in favor of players engaging in full on hails of gunfire. The array of weapons included in Mafia III all pack a big punch, and enemies are specifically designed to die with maximum theatrics. Every bad guy seems to look for a nearby ledge to tumble over just before expiring, and if none is to be found, any piece of scenery ultimately ends up fitting the bill. Blood gushes everywhere, objects constantly explode, it's all a pulpy, violent mess.Every week we send Brendan to investigate the seedy underworld of early access. This time, interrogating the robots of Bot Colony [official site]., Bot Colony, according to its own boast, is “the first video game featuring intelligent conversation as its key gameplay feature”. You speak into a microphone and ask questions of the robot characters, or give them commands. You might remember Chris attempting to put books on shelves using this voice recognition feature. You might also remember him failing miserably. Well, it’s been some time since then and we thought we’d give it another shot in this video special. Read on and watch my own doomed attempt to communicate with mankind’s newest mistake., This time, the robot has the added challenge of interpreting a Celtic accent, a task at which voice recognition is famously terrible. I am used to changing my vowels into a mock English for the benefit of confused administration staff who don’t understand when I say that I was born in “aidy-aid”. And there is definitely some of that here. But I was not prepared for the level of misunderstanding these robots would have at the words “name” or “who” and their lack of comprehension of individual letters of the alphabet. At the bottom of the screen you can see where my words were interpreted., This is supposed to be a training sequence, the first of three planned missions but I sadly would not get any further. The robot has witnessed a break-in. A spy has stolen an important piece of tech (an advanced sensor) from a Japanese scientist’s home. You need to question the bot and piece together the exact order of events through its responses. Sometimes you get video records of what the bot has seen, but often he will just rattle off some facts in a hugely specific fashion. The robot’s name is Jimmy. He is the worst domestic robot I have ever met., , As you can see the interrogation was almost entirely fruitless. Voice recognition and AI responses are not really at a stage when you can have an “intelligent conversation” with a machine, no matter what the game’s blurb might say. Even Alexa and Siri fall to pieces under pressure. However, the experience of repeating the word “who” into a microphone countless times has made me sympathise for all future homicide detectives who bring in a robotic witness. It’s true that you can edit the phrase you’re saying in the typebox, or just type all your questions from the start. But that kinda defeats the purpose and appeal of the game. It’s a mystery about chatting to robots, not texting them., I’m not sure what the thinking was behind having so many Japanese names in the story, either. Surely an English-language machine would be more comfortable with ‘John’ or ‘Sarah’, rather than ‘Masaya’ and ‘Ayame’ (no matter what demands the plot has)? And surely the player, more likely to be English-speaking than Japanese-speaking, would be equally glad of simple, recognisable names in a conversation that requires clarity. It’s just one of the world’s details that feels counterproductive., , Before you begin, Windows sets up your voice recognition. You have to speak certain lines into the microphone as part of a voice test that lasts about fifteen minutes, much of it instructions on how to treat the robot (instructions which hint at the low level of cognition your robot is really going to have). But seeing that one test was clearly not enough, I exited out and tried to give the machine more to work with. That’s when you see me bumping out to desktop, whereupon I read out the game’s convoluted back story in my best storytime voice and hoped that it would be enough. It was not enough., I’m sure this is working more confidently for some than for myself. Aside from the accent issue, more voice tests are supposed to lead to better results. But each test takes a long time and there’s no guarantee that three or four or five tests will make the interpreter as clever as it would need to be to follow directions that are more complex than “pick up X” or “walk forwards two metres”. I also realised with hindsight that many words are probably saved in the robots thick skull as American. So when I said, “turn on the tap”, I really ought to have said “turn on the faucet”. Although there is the added trouble of not knowing which objects in the house can be interacted with and which are purely environmental. It’s all very messy., , The truth is, I went in knowing that it would be janky. But I didn’t expect it to be this janky. And I wanted to be surprised at the machine’s awareness. This comes across sometimes, when you insult it, for instance, and it detects the hostility (sorry, Jimmy). But mostly the game is a victim of a multi-layered problem. First, the voice recognition can be laughable. Second, the robot’s interpretation of your questions and commands is as overly strict and non-malleable as you’d expect. Third, the actual “game” itself doesn’t help matters. Trying to collect video recordings isn’t very exciting and putting pieces of furniture back into their pre-thievery positions is no more fun than when you played ‘spot the difference’ on the back of your Honey Cheerios box., No. It is a game wholly reliant and marketed on its technology, which feels so much more absurd the more you attempt to communicate with the machine. I suspect it will be better for people with hours of voice recognition testing behind them (not to mention the exact accent the robot was designed for), and there is also an element of learning the right commands and sticking to that cheatsheet of robot lines. It’s also admirable, from a technology perspective, to pursue projects like this. The ideal – to talk to a robot and have it understand you – is one worth chasing. But with a learning process as daft as this, I couldn’t face going through it all when the story and surrounding tasks are so wafer thin. That, and Jimmy really, really annoyed me.While Resident Evil 7 may seem like it’s taking the franchise in a radical new direction in some ways (most notably, the first-person perspective), its core formula feels remarkably similar to the original PlayStation games. After a prologue sequence leads you by the hand for a bit, a larger area opens up and familiar elements immediately reappear. This area is filled with locked doors, with many indicating that they require a particular key or elaborate assortment of objects to open. Exploring various rooms yields plenty of drawers filled with ammo, lockpicks, notes scrawled on photos, and ominous diary entries. Safe rooms offer relief with their calming music, save points, and storage boxes. Resident Evil 7 takes a bold step with the new first-person perspective, but adjusting to it takes no time at all and you’re quickly thrown into pleasantly familiar territory.All of the gameplay design elements in ReCore collectively have the makings of an excellent little character-driven action game like there haven't been enough of in recent years. The combat is fast and varied, the platforming is demanding and cleverly designed, and the progression has more than enough of that carrot-on-a-stick potential to make you want to keep upgrading. But the longer the game goes on, the more bugs large and small start to grate on your nerves, and the more disjointed and downright weird the pacing of the story becomes. I eventually lost track of the number of technical issues I ran into playing through this game; it's simply one of the buggiest games to come out of a major publisher, much less a platform-holder, in recent memory.The on-foot loadouts for pilots are nicely expanded, too, with a bevy of guns that potentially fit different playstyles, but considering the map size (relatively large, though not "Battlefield large"), it's hard to find a great reason to use weapons built for shorter ranges, like SMGs and shotguns. When I'm firing on a guy that's running across a rooftop halfway across the map. I need something that's going to not have a ton of recoil so I can be relatively accurate without having to actually get tight enough to be a good sniper. So assault rifles and a smattering of LMGs seem to win the day here, as far as I'm concerned. They seem to offer the most versatility, covering short and medium range quite well. Beyond that, you'll unlock more things for the guns and titans you use as you use them more frequently and effectively, from improved reload times to camo patterns.“How’d this zombie stuff happen?” is usually an unanswered question in zombie fiction, and that tradition holds true in Killing Floor 2. It has no campaign to speak of, and the maps don’t offer up much in the way of an overarching narrative, either. Instead, you’re stuck in the aftermath of an outbreak, which takes you from a flaming downtown Paris to infested catacombs, subway tunnels, and a prison. The maps offer impressive variation, even if the core gameplay is the same. In most interior spaces, you can choose to weld down certain doors – a boon for controlling choke points, but at the risk of trapping your squad if things go south. A forest area doesn’t provide those opportunities, but the open spaces give your team plenty of space to run. The same can’t be said for a claustrophobia-inducing farmhouse and its accompanying barn, which can grind you to a bloody pulp if you don’t effectively monitor its various hallways. I didn’t mind the lack of a story, since this game’s focus is on repeatable fun over delivering an important message about the nature of humanity.Dark Souls has always been a series interested in the blurry memory of history, and now it has its own massive history to allude to. There was a moment towards the end of the game that made stop in place and just soak in a particular arrangement of fortifications in front of me. Was that.... I’d been there, I think, once, a long time ago. Or had the curse finally taken me, too? It was one of the most magical moments of the series for me, but in the way that in Dark Souls, “magical” means an uncanny blend of beautiful and disorienting.Most shrines feature hidden treasure chests. Frequently, these contain equipment like melee weapons, bows, or shields. I lost track of how many times I’d get to one, only to be told that my inventory was full. When this happened, I’d step away from the chest, cycle through what I was holding, and toss several items at my feet before grabbing my new toy. It’s frustrating at times, but you thankfully can upgrade your storage capacity by collecting hidden seeds and delivering them to a specific character.After various spin-offs and re-releases, the buildup to Kingdom Hearts III has been nothing if not drawn out. Kingdom Hearts II launched more than a decade ago, and a whole new generation of gamers can play the early entries thanks to HD remasters on PS3 (and later this year on the PS4). Final Chapter Prologue should be the last new remaster before Kingdom Hearts III; it includes Dream Drop Distance (originally a 3DS exclusive) for the first time on the big screen. Additionally, an episode starring Aqua and a mini-movie, which shows how this crazy journey all began, are both new for this entry. As convoluted as the Kingdom Hearts storyline is, after playing through this collection, I have a clearer understanding of the narrative leading into Kingdom Hearts III. Even without the extra story context, Final Chapter Prologue is fun on its own, and Square Enix did a wonderful job making this a worthwhile collection and not just a port of Dream Drop Distance.We’ve traveled throughout Daventry during the game, and the final chapter sticks close to Graham’s kingdom. The locations are familiar, but they’ve transformed over the years. I’ve grown fond of these places in the hours I’ve spent with the game, and the return trip was filled with little surprises. Graham has to navigate a tunnel that previously required a lantern; now it’s been overhauled with lights as part of a civic-improvement initiative. Old friends also return in various forms, and I was glad to see them again. Some games, like Baby, are just plain weird. It tasks you with soothing a fussy infant by cradling the Switch in your arms, boldly embracing the fact that 1-2-Switch is as enjoyable as taking care of a crying baby. Other games really scrape the bottom of the barrel (or shoe for that matter). Take Zen, which has you place a controller on the palm of your hand and then hold still for as long as possible. I actually liked Zen, because if I closed my eyes, I could forget I was playing 1-2-Switch for a few glorious minutes. If you were to actually bring 1-2-Switch's dull offerings to a rooftop party like in the Switch commercials, you're liable to get thrown off.A bigger flaw to the repetitive cycle is the fact that the puzzles must be completed in one go, but they aren’t always the simple “get one item and use it someplace” solutions typically seen in adventure games. The Sexy Brutale is a mansion full of carefully orchestrated routines, which means that most of the puzzles force you to wait until certain characters have entered specific rooms or interacted with special objects. You rarely uncover the solution to a puzzle in a single day, which means that you frequently need to repeat the same steps and watch the same routines play out several times over before finally solving a puzzle. After repeat views, even events that were initially charming become dull and aggravating.The episode’s major problem is that every story beat is predictable, with Batman being ridiculously dumb during certain scenes for the sake of trying to build suspense that isn’t there. In one sequence, Bruce is trying to find a house where someone is being held hostage using scraps of data. After seeing literally any of the clues, the location is painfully clear – but players have to keep going for several minutes until the “world’s greatest detective” puts the pieces together. This happened multiple times during my playthrough, because it’s too clear from the get-go what everything is building toward.Tales of Berseria does some interesting things, and is the most captivating Tales storyline in some time. I like the majority of its ideas, but the execution often feels half-realized. It still feels like the franchise isn't making big enough leaps, and is just content to bring its fans more of the same. By now, you probably know if you're okay with that. Nothing ever made me stop playing, but the flaws are impossible to ignore. At launch, the seamless online features of Watch Dogs 2 – including a new multiplayer mode called Bounty Hunter – were pulled offline temporarily due to lag and crashes (co-op was unaffected). As of press time, we didn’t have a chance to test these features out completely, but they compose a relatively small piece of the whole Watch Dogs 2 experience.Dishonored 2 wisely preserves the play style flexibility of its predecessor, but better balances the scales between choosing a blood-soaked, high-chaos approach and a nonviolent, low-chaos solution. Whereas the first game failed to deliver a compelling progression for stealth-minded players, the distinct powers Emily and Corvo wield are equally useful for avoiding detection and taking a pound of flesh from every enemy you encounter. Stealthy players will also appreciate the addition of nonlethal drop takedowns and a small timing window that allows you to choke out enemies after stunning them during combat.Capcom Vancouver has been streamlining the core of Dead Rising since it took over development duties with Dead Rising 2. Frank has loosened up since the first game, where he (and players) had to keep a close eye on his watch to make sure that time didn’t run out. Each subsequent game in the series has relaxed those timed elements, with DR4 eliminating them altogether. I’m sure there are going to be some people who cry foul at not having a rigid deadline in the background, but I appreciate the decision. Willamette is a big place with a lot to explore, and it’s nice to have the freedom without feeling like the meter is constantly running. You can take things at your own pace, knowing that when you’re done looking for panic rooms to loot or photographing graffiti, the next mission is waiting.In the original release of Mario Kart 8, battle mode was the major sore spot, since it made players duke it out on race tracks rather than dedicated battle arenas. With Deluxe, Nintendo has more than remedied that problem. In addition to adding new and reimagined classic battle arenas, Deluxe expands on the basic battle concept. The classic Balloon Battle, where you try and pop the balloons of other players while protecting your own, is joined by the all-new Renegade Roundup, as well as modes from past games like Bob-omb Blast, Coin Runners, and Shine Thief.the feeling of surviving in spite of the odds. Facing off against a series of ever-stronger aliens and obstacles as I inched further away from my planetary outpost, a series of good decisions (and a well-arranged deck) can turn tepid luck into a fighting chance. But as often as it gave me just enough to pull through, Loot Rascals threw me into situations where I may as well have folded.Rather than have two concurrent Mario RPG series, Nintendo has kept most of that genre’s trappings confined to the Mario & Luigi series for over a decade. Paper Mario may have taken the torch from Super Mario RPG with its first two entries, but later titles strayed further and further from the formula. Super Paper Mario was a platformer for all intents and purposes, and Sticker Star took a different approach altogether. The 3DS title eliminated XP and leveling, severely handicapping any sense of progression. In addition, combat was regulated by a finite collection of stickers that Mario would collect in the world. As polarizing as Sticker Star was for fans of the series, Paper Mario: Color Splash doubles down on its most frustrating elements and makes them even worse.I could happily look past a trite and overly video-gamey core scenario if Andromeda's assembled cast of crew mates and peripheral figures were as engaging as in previous games; Mass Effect has frequently done its best storytelling around the edges of the main plot, after all. But despite a couple of interesting origin stories--Cora, the human biotic so freakishly powerful she ended up running with an asari commando unit, and Jaal, the contemplative angaran warrior-monk type who's probably the standout party member--I never got close to feeling the same attachment for Andromeda's squadmates that I did for the various crews of the Normandy, nor did any of the dozens of incidental characters or side quest storylines connect with me in an especially memorable way.The abrupt endings, forced action sequences, and extensive load times mar an otherwise fun adventure game. The topnotch writing, and fascinating hook of Holmes struggling with a real issue are buried beneath these problems. I enjoyed being a super sleuth, and adored just how intimate the deductive process is, but found myself getting pulled out of the thrill of the hunt by the gameplay diversions. I just wish I could avoid that element of the game as much as Holmes turns his back on his daughter.Players select an avatar and then venture through a variety of game modes. You can change your avatar at any time, and it’s more than just a visual – your “random” card rewards will be influenced by your race. Card-game veterans will gravitate toward ladder-climbing through the ranks of each ranked season and the arena, ES:L’s form of limited/draft play. The action, too, suffers from concessions that virtual reality require. The plane crash won’t make you woozy, but at the expense of it being an unexciting bummer. Even during the climax, I didn’t get any real sense of peril or urgency. Instead, the entirety of the game is like moving from chair to chair, occasionally looking around for the next switch to pull or button to press. Some of the puzzles are quite clever, but they’re dragged down by the tiresome movement system and sometimes-fussy head-tracking.Those other components are all well and good, but it's that campaign in Doom you absolutely need to see. The majority of Doom's original creators may have moved on from id by now, but this game still looks, plays, and feels like it was made by a group of people who not only understand Doom but respect and love it. It ticks off every item on a list of things a modern Doom should have, including several items you didn't even know were on the list in the first place. They may not make shooters like this anymore, but the runaway success of this game serves as long overdue proof that they really should.The drop-in/drop-out cooperative infrastructure Ubisoft built for Wildlands generally works, but expect some hiccups as well. A handful of player drops happened unexpectedly, and we witnessed some nagging glitches where player characters twitch furiously or appear to run on top of a car when in actuality they are sitting in the vehicle. Remakes and rereleases of classic games have been so numerous in recent years that they’ve become a running joke. Whether it’s an HD shine on Twilight Princess, a remaster of a Resident Evil remake, or one of many trilogies and game collections, the current generation of consoles have no drought of material for those wanting a reason to play old games. Insomniac’s newest offering lies a bit outside of this trend, however. Ratchet & Clank (2016) offers far more than a simple remaster, but also isn’t slavish enough to its film tie-in to make fans of the series feel short-changed. This a fully featured reimagining of the 2002 original, with tweaks and additions that help tie it into the movie. Most importantly, it manages to do this all while feeling like a modern gameplay experience and retaining the chaotic fun the series has been known for all these years.And it's kind of a beautiful, even humbling thing. This is what ultimately kept me going in No Man's Sky. When I'd finished the Atlas path, I almost called it quits in disgust. But when I eventually convinced myself to go back, I decided to return to the pace of play I'd been holding to before I decided to rush through the last few Atlas stations. I made it a point to go to every planet in a star system, and even if I opted not to stay long, maintaining that need to explore brought me back to how I felt when I first began the game. The sense of wonder returned as I continued my solitary journey through space. Knowing that I was totally on my own, and that there was nothing left to guide me, reminded me why I was ever enjoying the game in the first place.Everything is a goofy paradise for intrepid explorers. It goes all-in on its atmosphere, hijacking hook, and wealth of interactive objects. The gameplay has little in the way of guidance systems or tangible, material rewards to work toward, and features no story outside of collectible audio recordings from talks given by philosopher Alan Watts about the nature of existence and humanity’s place in the universe. I found these audio snippets to be an irksome, clumsy attempt to shoehorn in dull philosophy 101 lectures. I don’t need to be told that the universe is an astounding place, because Everything conveys this already without any narrative meddling.Most of what you're doing to progress in Grow Up, you already did in Grow Home. Instead of one starplant to grow up into the sky and reach the highest islands, you now grow three; the hundred crystals you collected in the first game are followed up here with half again as many. That stuff is still fun to engage with on a basic level, so that familiar repetition isn't totally damning, but when you consider that Grow Up's new content consists primarily of timed race challenges (the bottom-tier fodder of open-world side content), the whole package feels a little thin. Don't even try to tackle those challenges early in the game, before you have a better jetpack and glider; that's a recipe for extreme frustration. Later on, with all your flight upgrades, finishing them becomes utterly trivial. At that point, the hardest thing about the timed challenges is finding them all. The game has a world map that does helpfully mark items of interest automatically, but once you've finished most of the activities, the map doesn't give you any way to pinpoint the few items you have left. I spent a maddening two extra hours scouring the world for the last two challenges I'd missed before finally discovering them hiding in places where the map didn't make them particularly visible.If there’s one thing I’m sick of, it means I’ve had some sort of head injury and forgotten the many, many, copious things I’m also sick of. But amongst their number is the cavalcade of recent games that feel the need to try to trick me into learning computer programming. You know, I’m good thanks. I’m 40 this year, my brain has pretty much established over multiple attempts that it just isn’t willing to let in computer programming, along with French, the difference between “affect” and “effect” [not to mention “defuse” and “diffuse” -ed.], and the HTML for embedding an email address. You program the games, I’ll play them. Ta., Anyway, so there’s a nice new puzzle game out called Bomb Squad Academy [official site], a game about defusing bombs against the clock, and – WAIT A SECOND! This game’s teaching me electronics! Why I oughtta…, And it does it really rather well., , The key difference here, from my mini-rant above, is that this isn’t pretending to be something it’s not. It’s not a platform game where you weirdly have to keep running through OR gates. Bomb Squad Academy is very unashamedly about teaching the basics of electronics, and the crucial thing is, it’s managed to make that process immediately applied, and decent fun. As I play through its relatively simple challenges, I just keep thinking, “Good grief, if only I could have had this in 1994 instead of a tired physics teacher and some clapped out electronics boards.”, Approach it as an educational tool, rather than the latest in puzzle gaming innovation, and it does its job splendidly. The game is, in effect, one long tutorial, each new level adding in a new component (best pun I’ve ever used) like wiring, capacitors, XOR gates, and so on. But what’s so crucial is that it’s instantly applied., I think the main reason all these basics went over my head at school was that so much was taught as floating theory, pencil-drawn circuit diagrams and faith. The theory of AND, OR and XOR gates are simple enough, but if you want to truly learn something, have it embed in your cranium, you need to apply it. , , What better application than pretending if you make a mistake you’ll die. You’re disabling bombs, and that involves studying the circuit board, looking what’s powering what, and working out a way to send power from the source to the LEDS marked “Disarm”. Except without accidentally powering up “Detonate”. That leads to a rather big bang, and a message informing you of your demise. With its digital countdowns, there’s always plenty of time to solve a puzzle, but limiting you to a minute or two ensures there’s a degree of pressure. (Sensibly there’s an option to make these times much longer, for any who might need that.) When the boards start getting a lot more complex, it requires a deliberate effort to stay calm, do the diligent work, and not just panic and cut wires at random. Because when you do make a mistake, the explosion is instantaneous and makes me jump every single time., Bomb Squad is neatly presented, if a little stuffily. It can’t really escape from being a collection of circuit boards with a countdown timer, but it’s all tidy and clear. The writing in those rather formal-looking pop-ups, however, is bright and cheerful, and most importantly, encouraging. And when it comes to games as educational tools, it entirely avoids the most dreadful pitfall of them all: wackiness. Phew., , There are a couple of issues. I’ve encountered a bug where I couldn’t get the Level Select screen to do anything, which required a restart. And oh good lord, the music is horrible. The music played in the lift that descends to hell. Kill it, kill it with bombs and options screens. But beyond this, it’s a solid set up, functional rather than snazzy, but that’s appropriate to the task., It also manages to achieve that bomb defusing essential – the moment of nervous uncertainty when you cut a wire, either leading to a sudden explosion, or the relief of simple nothingness., , You may be thinking, “Hang on, weren’t Introversion working on a bomb game?” and you’re right. This time last year they revealed Wrong Wire alongside Scanner Sombre as a prototype, and I had a play of it at the time. It was pretty good! But Bomb Squad Academy really doesn’t tread on its toes. Introversion’s game is a pure puzzler, and a lot more involved in terms of techniques. Although we’ve not heard a peep about it since. Meanwhile, Academy is entirely focused on tricking you into learning some basic electronics., And that’s enough. I heartily encourage you to grab this if you’ve got a kid trying to learn it at school. Heck, if you’re a physics teacher you really should buy a bunch of copies, as this’ll be a surefire way to gain the attention of some of your students. Or if you just fancy reminding yourself about logic gates, pulse generators and capacitors, this is a neat little thing. I’d love to pretend I viewed it all as a smug expert pondering its usefulness for younger players, but that’s just flat-out not true – it taught me a whole bunch, as hard as I tried not to learn anything.The gameplay systems are explained over the course of a lengthy tutorial that mostly works. The higher you progress, the more options you unlock, including higher-tier fighters, vending machine boosts, and customizable decals to augment your roster of punishers. Of particular note is the Tokyo Death Metro, which allows you to invade other player’s headquarters and rob them of resources. You have to fight through any defenders they may have set up in their base, but you have a chance to capture downed fighters and bring them back to your own base to drain their life essence for even more resources. This incurs the ire of the players you rob, who will likely come back and try to rescue their fallen fighter. This player-vs-player system is fun, and feels quite similar to base-bashing mobile games like Clash of Clans, with players selecting and representing a faction (states, countries, etc.) to create larger wars.Which isn’t to say that difficult topics should be off limits. Any of these characters, if written with definition, care, and a dash of actual humor, could’ve been solid enough companions through the game. Instead they’re thin caricatures, undercutting any sense of drama or urgency once the supposed drama starts to unfold. Worse, through the first 20 or so hours, I could never tell if I was supposed to think that these characters were naive fools or noble heroes--and this ambiguity isn’t artfully rendered, it’s just whiplash.Players are not just defined by numbers this year. The introduction of a new feature called “quirks” gives each player a defined skill set. Brian Dozier has a Bomber quirk that allows him to hit more home runs. Adrian Beltre rarely misses the ball while swinging thanks to his 20/20 Vision quirk. Anthony Rizzo has a Rally Monkey quirk that ups his performance when the Cubs are behind. Billy Hamilton is a Bunt Master and Thief. Some players just have one or two quirks, but most superstars are stacked with them.Subtle hints can be found in spoken dialogue or by keeping a keen eye of your surroundings, and moments like these are when Memoranda is at its best. The biggest problem is that too many puzzles are illogical, which makes them more tedious than fun. Even during my second playthrough, I’d get stuck briefly because I couldn’t remember who to speak to or what item to look at in order to open up the next area. Hitman’s later episodes only become more unforgiving. IO Interactive isn’t afraid to ratchet up the difficulty by loading environments with eagle-eyed foes. Episode 5 tasks 47 with taking out four targets on a militia training camp in Colorado, which means every NPC is armed and on the lookout for intruders. Episode 6 takes place inside a high-tech spa where every door is electronically locked based on your disguise, leaving you with few places to hide. I appreciate new wrinkles and challenges being introduced to Hitman’s gameplay, but they all result in more trial and error, which can quickly cross the line into frustration.By putting players in control of city-planning without annoying barriers or online connectivity requirements, Cities: Skylines has established a reputation for being the best modern city-builder when it originally released two years ago. Though the PC release relies on mouse and keyboard controls, the game has leapt to Xbox One with full gamepad support and a new streamlined menu system. The result is the premier city simulation game on consoles.Whether you love it or hate it, much of the discussion surrounding IO Interactive’s latest installment of Hitman has been focused on its episodic format. The decision to split the experience into individual levels and sell them piecemeal was a major focus (and criticism) in my review of Episode 1, and the slow drip feed of offerings since then ultimately led us to wait until the entire “season” was released before taking another critical look at the game. That time has come with the release of the final episode, and while playing through all six missions together does indeed offer a better experience, Agent 47’s latest outing fails to live up to his greatest hits. Missions like finding hidden keys or throwing switches to open the exit portal do a good job of bringing new takes on Bomberman into the mix in inoffensive ways. However, when a mission variant that requires Bomberman to rescue abandoned NPCs across a given stage is introduced, the story mode reaches its low point. In these stages, you dodge enemies and collect several stranded NPCs and deliver them to a safe zone. The NPCs don't stay right on you, and are likely to get caught in bomb blasts as they trail behind, causing them to respawn in their original locations. I was thankful that these aggravating stages didn't pop up frequently, but I dreaded them when they did.Beyond its cast of astonishing characters, the chief allure is the interlocking web of quests. Torment’s missions often explore metaphysical quandaries, and demand attention and judicious use of character skills, like persuasion, knowledge of machinery, and more. I might aid a cabal of psychics to uncover the malevolent entity hiding in their midst, or force my character to die so he can enter a labyrinth in his own mind and help a ghostly woman hiding within. I was thoroughly engrossed in the stories at hand, but I sometimes found the constant back-and-forth running between destinations to be tedious. At the core of the story is the Baker family that Ethan encounters early on in the game. Their presence is immediately unsettling, and their actions and demeanor make it unclear what exactly is wrong with them. They seem at times to be cannibals, zombies, psychopaths, or some combination of the three. The opening hours of the game are especially effective in terms of scares, as I was always worried that one of them would be waiting just around the corner.Shadow Warrior 2’s melee combat is consistently entertaining and occasionally spectacular, with enough speed and special powers for the player to take on entire squads of enemies and dance around them, slicing them to ribbons like some violent ballet dancer. It’s often a gruesome display but it does a great job of making you feel powerful by letting you string together combos, like summoning spikey pillars from the ground to pierce enemies, stunning them and leaving them open to your attacks. You can also briefly turn invisible and sneak around the battlefield to launch an attack that does nearly double damage on unsuspecting enemies. In these moments, Shadow Warrior 2 unloads its treasure on the player, introducing a violent rhythm that’s enjoyable and easy to master. Unfortunately, that loop cannot sustain itself for the entire 15-hour campaign, which is how long the game takes if you pursue side missions for better weapons and to upgrade your skills to make melee combat a viable option in later fights.Halo Wars 2’s successes and failures transfer over to the multiplayer modes, many of which feature the exact same gameplay. If you’d prefer a battle of wits against a living opponent, Halo Wars 2 allows you to set up a number skirmishes where you either eradicate you opponent or battle over control of specific points.It's important to note up front that the tone and presentation of Inside are just like that of Limbo, which is to say it's preeminently focused on having you puzzle-platform your way through beautifully rendered, increasingly grim scenarios at the expense of everything else. You will pick your way through a wide array of different environments, stitched together seemingly at random and oozing with unsettling imagery. You will solve satisfying puzzles in macabre scenarios; you won't be told a coherent story. You may be scratching your head a little when it's all over. If you roll your eyes at games that can even be loosely described as artsy, you should at least know what you're getting into here. Inside takes itself seriously, but it's way too good at everything it does to ever become bogged down in pretension.