The refrain you most often hear when talking about Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed series is that it's due for a break. That's not surprising when you consider that we are now nine (10, if you count Liberation) games into this series, only eight years after its debut. Quality concerns are certainly at the root of that argument--with last year's Assassin's Creed Unity offering a crash course in just about everything that can go wrong in one of these games--though the homogeneity of the open world action genre has played its part as well. If it's not Assassin's Creed directly turning players off with spotty entries, it's the overwhelming sensation that most publishers of games like these are working from the same basic playbook, riffing on the same towers, vantage points, and collectibles while swapping out assets and perspectives where appropriate. This is what makes Assassin's Creed Syndicate such a peculiar thing. On paper, Syndicate doesn't appear to offer up much beyond what every other Assassin's Creed game does. It's the same stab-happy open world design plopped into another noteworthy point in history--in this case, Victorian era London--with only a new pair of switchable protagonists and horse drawn carriages to set itself apart. But here's the thing: Syndicate is good. Very good. Yes, it's running an overly familiar playbook, but those plays are among the very best this series has ever offered. In Syndicate, Assassin's Creed is reconstructed into something resembling its former glory--not a particularly new or inventive game, but a sturdily built, enjoyably written, generally well-paced refabrication of what this franchise was once best at delivering. And where it does tinker with the formula, it makes small, but meaningful improvements that turn Victorian London into one of the most exciting and exquisite worlds this series has ever put together. That is maybe an odd description for the often gloomy, coal-stained architecture of London, circa 1868, but Ubisoft Quebec (and the roughly seven other teams who all had a part in creating Syndicate) did a tremendous job turning the city into a viable playground. A playground, of course, infested with templars, who have turned the city into a haven of corruption, gang warfare, and abuses of the working class. As such, it is up to twin protagonists Jacob and Evie Frye to rescue the city, even though the assassins guild would seemingly rather they didn't. When we first meet the pair, they're working small time assassinations in the English countryside, eager to take their talents into the capital. The templars have tapped into every vein of commerce running through the city, and despite the pleas of London's resident assassin--the helpful, but inexperienced Henry Green--the council refuses to assist his efforts to beat back the templars' influence. After offing a pair of templar middle men, Jacob and Evie take it upon themselves to hop a train to London to help clear the city. Their adversary is Crawford Starrick, a curl-mustached overlord hellbent on uncovering another first civilization artifact, which Evie very much wants to intercept. Jacob, on the other hand, would much rather focus on establishing his own gang to rival the templars' Blighters, who dominate every neighborhood in the city. This creates something of a split narrative. Evie's hunt for the artifact and Jacob's templar murders are separated in the game's core story missions, though for any other events on the map, you can choose to play either one. There's little meaningful benefit to choosing one or another; Jacob is a touch better at combat, while Evie's marginally better in stealth situations, but outside of a few specific skill upgrades for each, the differences are negligible. Each of their motivations are similarly surface-level. Neither character gets much backstory; they're almost exclusively defined by their approach to ridding the city of the templars, and occasionally their squabbles with each other. Evie is the more level-headed of the two, and she often finds herself cleaning up after her chucklehead brother, who often kills without thinking of the larger consequences. Then again, that's been true of any number of other, better-defined Assassin's Creed heroes over the years. Despite appearances to the contrary, this series is practically founded on the notion of killing first, and sorting out the messes later. More interesting than the Frye twins are Syndicate's villains. Yes, they're all violent cartoons of industrial capitalist excess, including an orphan abusing factory owner, a phrenologically obsessed doctor, and a gang leader that operates like a 19th century precursor to the Joker. They're all varying degrees of ridiculous--with Starrick in particular presenting as so over-the-top evil that he literally shoots an underling for disturbing him as he sings a sad piano ballad--but that ridiculousness is wholly welcome. Despite featuring all manner of terrible things happening to the people of London, Syndicte never wallows in its own misery, never assigns too much self-seriousness to its story. I'm not saying that Assassin's Creed can't ever take itself seriously, but I'd argue it's often best when it doesn't. These games have always hovered somewhere around The Da Vinci Code in terms of how much grave importance they assign to their very silly conspiracies and historical revisionism. Syndicate drifts closer to the tone of something like National Treasure, and I don't mean that as an insult. This is, after all, a game in which you are hunting for a magical healing cloak left behind by an ancient Earth civilization; in which you command an army of orphan scamps who offer up cash and crafting materials on command; in which you and Florence Nightengale GTA a horse-drawn carriage so you can rescue a kidnapped Charles Darwin. At a certain point you either have to embrace the ridiculousness of such premises, or try to wallpaper it over with hefty helpings of grimness. Syndicate, thankfully, embraces its inherent silliness, while still making it feel like its story matters in the larger context of the series. It's a trifle, but an endearing one. Syndicate also has some of the best-designed assassination missions anywhere in the series. These are the meat of Syndicate's campaign. Each target is a rung on the ladder to Starrick, and before you can tackle them, you'll have to perform a couple of set-up missions with each character. These set-up missions are rarely highlights--you mostly find yourself running errands and tracking targets--but they provide necessary context for why you're about to go kill whoever you're about to go kill. When it does finally come time to eliminate your target, you now have an added variety of ways to go about it. Each assassination comes with stealth, assistance, and unique kill opportunities. These are highlighted icons that appear within the environment, usually over some random NPC or hiding spot that you can engage with to more dramatically achieve your goal. These tasks aren't terribly hard to achieve in most cases, but they do require a bit more effort than the old ceiling drop of doom. It's essentially a light dusting of Hitman onto the existing assassination framework, but it's enough to make these tasks feel fresh. As good as the assassinations are, they're but a fraction of what you'll spend your time doing in Syndicate. London is littered with objectives, hidden chests, sync points and side ventures for historical figures. It's a loaded map, but it doesn't feel quite as daunting as it did in Unity. Outside of the historical missions, which tend to run a bit longer, most of the non-story ventures are shorter, more focused tasks, which tie into the game's gang elements. Every neighborhood is broken up into districts, which each have a templar gang stronghold, factory, or sub-boss occupying it. Taking over a stronghold, clearing a factory (and rescuing the orphans trapped within), and either kidnapping or killing a templar target clears that territory of Blighter influence. This means fewer templar bad guys walking around, and more of your own crew in their place, which is handy as you can recruit your own gang members to fight for you, or just cause a distraction while you enter an area discreetly. The gang stuff is, admittedly, weird. Once you've cleared a territory of all the relevant objectives, you unlock a gang brawl. Winning this brawl (which isn't especially difficult) earns you a goofy cutscene where Jacob or Evie announce to a group of rival gang members that they work for them now, which the gangsters seem instantly cool with. It's kind of an anticlimactic way to conclude the side objectives you've been pushing through prior to that point, but those objectives are generally fun enough that it's not a huge deal. Each templar hunt is essentially a mini-assassination mission with its own suggested way of taking down the target, and the bounty hunts present a solid little challenge as you try to figure out how to take your target alive while navigating around groups of enemies. The kidnapping mechanic is one of the few new gameplay wrinkles Syndicate offers, and it is occasionally a frustrating addition. Kidnapping requires you to sneak up on a target, then punch/grab them into an armbar, which lets you guide them wherever you want. Early on they'll struggle or try to escape, but once you unlock a related perk in Jacob and Evie's skill trees, they'll cut that out entirely. That doesn't remove the challenge from the bounty hunt missions, however. You still have to guide them around the environment without enemies noticing you, and when you screw up, the AI will often try to bolt away from you. Often, but not always. Sometimes the AI just stands there while you fight off random thugs, seemingly too petrified to try to escape. Either that, or the AI just gets borked up. That will happen occasionally in Syndicate. Though it suffers from nowhere near the litany of technical issues that Unity did, Syndicate can be a little rough in places. Usually, it's the kind of open world jank you see in just about any game like this. Characters getting hung up on things, clipping awkwardly, or physics going nuts and launching enemies to ludicrous heights. A couple of side missions bugged out on me too, mostly in the Karl Marx quest line. In both cases, the bugs resulted in me succeeding despite not meeting the objectives as described, which was a bummer, but I suppose not as bad as failing me despite having met all the required objectives. That only happened once. Other changes to Syndicate mostly factor into how you traverse the city of London. The best of the two is the new grappling hook, a device that lets you quickly scale buildings, and build zip lines between them. London is a much wider city than most Assassin's Creed locations. The distance between blocks is often much more than either character can easily jump, so the zipline is a huge help when you want to jump from place to place quickly. It's still fun to climb buildings the old fashioned way, of course. Syndicate's traversal mechanics are the strongest in the series, only occasionally guessing wrong or getting you hung up on a piece of scenery as you hop around. Decidedly less great are the horse drawn carriages. Look, this was the mode of transportation of the era, so it would have been silly for the developers not to include them. That said, they're a mess. They're no bother when they're just trotting around the city, but the second you get behind the wheel--er, harness--they're a huge pain. They are, perhaps unsurprisingly, unwieldy to control, and extremely difficult to maneuver with any precision. That's probably true to life, but it doesn't make the missions where you're required to drive them any more enjoyable. Thankfully, most of these are optional hijacking and race missions you never have to touch, but there are a number of story and larger side missions that have you driving these awful horse boxes around, often engaging in awkward gunplay and carriage hopping in the process. Carriages aside, I had a blast with Syndicate's rendition of London. It's every bit as detailed and lively as Unity's vision of Paris, but more technically sound and with more space to move around in. The city isn't nearly as separated from Jacob and Evie as Paris was from Arno. People are more reactive to the pair, freaking out and bolting when you kill an enemy in plain view--well, most of the time, anyway. Some of the more scripted sequences sometimes struggle with this. If guards spot you, you can often kill them off without mission-specific bystanders reacting at all. This does create a few uncanny moments throughout the experience, but those aren't the norm. More often, London feels alive, or at least more alive than any other city depicted in this series. The easy conclusion to this review is the age old "fans of the series will love it" chestnut. But Syndicate isn't such an easy thing to brush off that way. Yes, fans of Assassin's Creed will definitely get what they want out of this sequel, especially if you're the sort that's invested in the larger metaplot, which this game advances ever so slightly for the first time in years. But that familiar refrain, about over familiarity and franchise fatigue, still echoes in the background. This is, after all, not the first time Assassin's Creed has rebounded from a lousy entry. There are only so many times you can be reminded of why you liked a series before you also start realizing why you had to be reminded in the first place. Still, Syndicate represents the most fun I've had with an Assassin's Creed game since Black Flag. It's proof that there's still life in this franchise, even when it goes badly astray. Now, what say we give it a short rest, so that maybe it won't have to be defibrillated back from the brink yet again?


No entertainment company has a more complicated relationship with its own history than the WWE. As announcer Michael Cole reminds us often both on television and in the company's licensed video games, Monday Night RAW is the longest running weekly episodic television show in history, and the company's stamp on popular culture runs even a great deal longer into the past than that. Yet the way the WWE chooses to leverage that long, exhaustively documented history is peculiar. The WWE Network, the company's perpetually not-quite-successful-enough streaming service, is an astonishingly rich collection of all that has come before in the world of WWE (and whatever other tape libraries they've seen fit to purchase), but rarely do you see that history portrayed with any significance on any of the weekly television programs. At best, history is periodically acknowledged, gestured toward, when a superstar of old is up for a Hall of Fame induction, or available for a brief public appearance. And even in those appearances, histories are only relevant insofar as they relate to what's happening this week, what rivalry is the current focus of storylines. History in the WWE is a marketing tool, a way to gin up interest in an episode where perhaps less is going on than usual. Here's Ric Flair to deliver a trademark "Woo!" while "putting over" his daughter. Here's Shawn Michaels, fresh from his latest trip to Cabela's, to tell the current world heavyweight champion why he's just an also-ran of the Heartbreak Kid. Here's Stone Cold Steve Austin to deliver a few hell yeahs before introducing the Undertaker, without ever diving too deep into the rich, bizarre history the two superstars have with one another. If you don't already know, the longest running weekly episodic television show in history isn't going to fill in the blanks for you. That's left to the Network, and, more often of late, the video games. Since WWE '13, the developers of WWE video games have been providing fairly detailed, interactive retellings of the company's watershed moments. Whether it's 30 Years of Wrestlemania, or an overview of the fabled Attitude Era, these games have become not just tools for players to create their own WWE-flavored moments, but loose history lessons as well. You play through whatever the WWE and the development team consider to be the biggest, most relevant moments of an event, of an era, or even a single feud. This year, the focus is on Austin, whose 14-year career peaked during the WWE's most tumultuous period, who Vince McMahon often credits for ushering in the Attitude Era and saving his company. And like those infrequent, one-off appearances on WWE's weekly television, Austin's expanded presence seems meant to gin up interest in a video game series that, over the last couple of years, has had a bit less going on than usual. Where last year's game tried to assemble a handful of unassociated feuds into a game that already felt barren and disjointed compared with its predecessors, the history of Austin's career makes for a decidedly easier sell. Though it covers some of the same ground as WWE '13's Attitude Era mode, WWE 2K16's Austin showcase is a solid walking tour of many of the biggest matches and feuds of his career. It occasionally veers into the more obscure, early era matches he had in WCW and ECW, but largely keeps its focus on his rise from King of the Ring '96 through his historically long feud with Mr. McMahon and his various cronies. Like previous years, you engage with this history by playing through these matches, hitting specific moves and quick time events along the way. The core beats of each match are reenacted with decent accuracy, except where licensing issues prevent it. For perhaps obvious reasons, the Owen Hart portion of Austin's lengthy feud with the Hart Foundation is glossed over in video clips, as Hart isn't playable in the game. Similarly, Mike Tyson isn't present for his "enforcer" role in Austin's title-winning Wrestlemania 14 match against Shawn Michaels. Instead, it's an unnamed figure who does his best to stay out of the player's field of view as much as possible. Occasional veering from the legitimate history like this isn't a huge problem. More of an issue is the way these modes go about making the player engage with that history. As the years have gone on, the Showcase matches have gotten more cavalier about pulling control from the player in service of more accurate, non-playable cutscenes. Significant chunks of all the main matches in Austin's showcase do this, either asking you to hit a quicktime button press (sometimes after an unpleasantly long wait period, which prevents you from paying attention to anything on-screen besides the button overlay), or do nothing at all as history plays out in front of you. A few of these would go a long way, but some matches have in the neighborhood of 10-12 objectives that range from simply damaging an opponent to highly specific moves. This mode has always tried to walk a thin middle ground between total adherence to history and player freedom, and I'd argue this year's is a little better about avoiding super frustrating objectives. But it's not completely devoid of them, and a few too many matches still became repetitive chores as a result. The focus on Austin and his era in 2K16 has another, probably unintended nostalgic consequence. Austin's rise also happens to coincide with what many consider to be the peak of the wrestling video game genre. As Austin came to power, AKI's various WWE and WCW N64 games, alongside 2K16 co-developer Yuke's' own SmackDown series on the PlayStation and PlayStation 2, were thriving. Those games are, for better or worse, still invoked by fans of this genre today, often when complaining about the current line of WWE games. 2K16 reminded me of the time I spent playing those AKI wrestlers as a teenager, and in so doing, simultaneously made me realize how far these games have come, and how much hasn't really changed for the better. Look, if you hold any of those old games directly up to the light of 2K16, the differences are unsurprisingly stark. 2K16 is by far the closest a developer has come to recreating the in-ring choreography of a modern WWE match. In addition to the chain wrestling mechanics added last year, matches now feature a host of small touches that tip the scales toward that ever moving goalpost of total realism. Early in matches, you'll see wrestlers back each other into the corner, allowing one or the other to throw in a disrespectful punch or slap as the ref comes between them. Finishers have been reduced in effectiveness a bit, meaning that, as seen on the television product, it often requires multiple big moves before you'll finally put an opponent down. A new pin meter encapsulates this shift toward longer matches, making it a bit easier to kick out in dramatic fashion following more average moves, while a lousy new submissions meter attempts to more accurately resemble the push/pull between wrestlers as a victim tries to struggle out of a hold (and largely fails). Heel wrestlers have some small AI changes that periodically cause them to exit the ring to regroup, attempt to exit the arena altogether, or pull out an illegal weapon to end a match in a DQ. Reversals have been given their own meter, and a limited number of rechargable uses, effectively limiting the number of times you can switch up a move during a match. Even rest holds, the necessary bane of any match, have been gamified into a stamina draining minigame. Between these changes and a whole host of newly motion-captured move animations, no game has ever looked more like a televised wrestling match. Yet for all those visual touches, WWE 2K16 still isn't a great deal of fun to play. I called last year's game sluggish, and 2K16 feels near-identical in that regard. It's not just the new animations and stamina systems that create this sensation. If anything, I found myself getting used to the nuances of match pacing this year, learning when my character will just hover over an opponent instead of launching directly into an attack, recognizing where I can get a strike in while an opponent laboriously climbs up the ropes back to his or her feet late in a match. But even as I became accustomed to these traits, 2K16 still felt like it dragged through every single match. Every character feels like they're walking through water. Controls just don't respond with the snappiness you want, and many of the new move animations lack the kind of impact the older, if more busted, animations offered. Say what you will about those old games, they moved. They had an energy to them that, while perhaps unrealistic, nevertheless was exciting to play. Even some of the recent games in this series offered up similar energy, but as 2K has pushed this series toward the holy grail of total realism, that energy has diminished. In 2K16, Visual Concepts and Yuke's have created a game that mostly accurately portrays the dance you see in the ring every single week, often at the expense of the spirit of what that dance is meant to portray. Moves that used to look brutal and ridiculous now look languid and floaty. Now every time Austin lands a Stone Cold Stunner, especially in showcase cutscenes, it never quite looks right. Or maybe it does look right, and just doesn't resemble the kind of cartoonish over-selling you'd see in years past, where every victim sprang skyward before flipping over dead. Wrestling fans are sticklers for detail, to the point of obsession. Every time one of these games comes out, it's not hard to find players online complaining about this move, or that character model, not sufficiently emulating real life. Perhaps this is the end result of that obsession. What once could be exaggerated out of technological limitation has now been softened by the limitations of wrestling reality. And for all the realism imbued in the gameplay, WWE 2K16 is still replete with immersion-breaking glitches, bugs, and occasional crashes. Wrestler AI is often predictable, except when it freaks out and leaves characters stuck standing on the top rope, or trying and failing to reenter the ring before a count out. This game still can't seem to handle larger weapons getting thrown into the mix without the physics going wonky, but even outside of gimmick bouts, I've seen characters clip waist-deep through the ring, pinned wrestlers stick to an opponent's hand like they're wearing suction cups, and generally deform in horrible ways. And that's just the visual bugs. The audio has a ton of issues as well, especially in the commentary. JBL's been thrown into the mix this year, and his lines are stitched together in such a way that they only barely gel with the existing lines from King and Cole, which are still overly repetitive and sometimes flat out incorrect. JBL's performance isn't good, but the editing is worse, as three men now try to hold a match-length conversation largely out of time from one another. Elsewhere, 2K16 has made some strides toward at least rebuilding the tower of modes and match types that last year's game pared down considerably. Most of the creation modes--save for the poor, assumedly dead, story creator--are back, allowing you to build your own championship belts, arenas, and shows in addition to the usual character and logo designers. All of these modes work more or less how they did before they were excised or severely reduced last year, and they're pretty easy to use. The wrestler editor in particular has been streamlined a great deal, now allowing you to preview various items without lengthy load times in-between, and upload face-specific images you can apply to your created grapplers. You can also create diva wrestlers again, which great given the number of major diva wrestlers currently missing from 2K16's "largest roster ever." That roster, mind you, is a pretty solid list of current, upcoming, and classic superstars, though a decent portion of those classic wrestlers are holdover characters from last year's game, seemingly included because those assets had already been generated. The biggest changes are found in 2K16's MyCareer mode. Introduced last year, MyCareer lets you create a WWE superstar of your own design, and put them through the paces of a full WWE career. Or, at least, that's the idea. Last year's mode was a crushing disappointment, a skeleton of a career mode that ended abruptly, but not before hours of meaningless matches that offered almost no story or character progression beyond basic statistics. This year's is a little better. You start off the same way, joining the NXT roster and working through some early tutorial matches. However, it's not long before the game puts you in your first rivalry. This system tracks your relationship with other superstars on your show's roster, fluctuating between ally and rival depending on what you do. Or, it says it depends on what you do, though just as often it appears left to the whims of the computer.Essentially, you or your would-be rival have the ability to interfere in each other's matches, either attacking before it even starts, or getting involved in the middle of the action. Rivalries are determined exclusively by who you choose to attack and interfere with, and who the computer picks in absence of a choice of your own. You advance your career by winning titles, which you build toward by besting other wrestlers currently vying for that belt. You repeat this process over and over again, checking off some achievement goals required to qualify your career for the WWE Hall of Fame while either meeting or failing objectives laid out for you by The Authority, and that's pretty much it. Sprinklings of story appear from time to time, which offer some branching choices, but it's all pretty lightweight. Still, those scenes are better than the uniformly terrible interview segments with an animatronic Renee Young, which exist to push your mostly meaningless personality traits in one direction or another. Mostly, it's up to you to fashion the stories in your own head as you grind through the lengthy array of matches the mode presents you with. That grind isn't as bad as last year, since there are things you can do in it outside of just winning and losing matches, but it does feel somewhat imbalanced. You start off the mode as an extremely low-rated wrestler, regardless of what rating you assigned the character in the creation mode. In order to build that wrestler up, you have to spend earned skill points on individual attributes, as well as unique skills (like dirty pins, high flying moves, and the like). This puts you at a significant disadvantage for much of your NXT run, as the number of points you're earning per-match (especially if you're losing) don't equate to significant adjustments to your overall stats. Losing is theoretically not supposed to matter as much as putting on a high quality effort. Everything you do in a match, from move variety to drama heightening pin kickouts and submission breaks, feed into a match rating that tallies up at the end. I was losing four-star efforts on a regular basis, and still only getting a tiny number of skill points, compared to less-exciting wins. It's worth noting that this is the same system 2K employs in its NBA game, though the trickle of skill points earned there is offset somewhat by the team nature of basketball. If you're an underrated player, you still have the ability to pass the ball around and make different kinds of plays that benefit your team. Here, unless you're in a tag team, you're on your own and forced to grind out those NXT matches until you've built yourself up to a sufficient degree. Or, you could buy the MyCareer Kickstart in the game's DLC shop, which, for ten bucks, lets you bump your MyCareer character up to a 90-rated superstar sans any skill points. It's tempting to say the tediousness of the grind is meant to inspire players to buy this thing, but bumping your character up that high just ensures any halfway experienced player will decimate most every opponent outside of the Brocks Lesnar and Johns Cena of the Universe. That's not a very good solution either. This is the vibe felt throughout WWE 2K16, one of solutions to problems in last year's game that don't quite go far enough. Take the online modes, which were a hot mess last year. The online interface has gotten a significant cleanup this year, with a proper menu system that lets you engage in private and live matches. It's a much better presentation that is nonetheless hobbled by the game's inconsistent servers. They're not uniformly jacked, but roughly half my time spent online resulted in laggy, barely playable matches where reversal timing became nigh-on impossible. During high volume periods, it's hard to even get the servers to connect long enough to download user created stuff. Things have gotten a bit better in recent days, but I'm still encountering laggy matches on a nightly basis. WWE 2K16 makes some not-insignificant strides toward improvement, but not a great many. Yes, it's nice that creation modes are mostly back to normal, and that gameplay has begun to shape itself into something other than the half-busted fighting game of years past. But what it's shaping itself into isn't compelling on its own yet. The little touches that emulate what we see on TV week after week don't negate the clunky, uncomfortable feel you're forced to wrestle with every time you play, or the dull, grindy progression of the career mode. What good is a deep and detailed creation suite if you never want to play with the things you create? This ultimately leaves WWE 2K16 with its history; its largest-ever roster, and deep dive into a career that once revitalized a floundering company. Just as we see on TV from time to time, WWE 2K16 leverages history out of what feels like a lack of confidence in what's currently on offer. 2K16 at least offers a measure of hope that this series can one day again stand on its own, that it can reassemble all the ill-fitting pieces it has collected over the years into something better balanced between hyperrealism and fun. Until then, here's Steve Austin once again to remind you of better times long since past, in the hopes of distracting you from everything wrong with the present.


Rise of the Tomb Raider is an apt name for a game that improves as much on its predecessor as this one does. The second outing for Crystal Dynamics' earnest reimagining of Lara Croft follows the same blueprint as 2013's reboot, which is to say there's a fair number of tightly scripted action set pieces and shootouts with heavily armed mercenaries in here. But then, my prevailing memory of the last (first?) Tomb Raider is of nothing but set pieces and shootouts. By contrast, this sequel cuts all that larger-than-life action with a more generous dose of side activities, a greater focus on exploration, and a deeper sense of wonder at the ancient ruins and myths you're uncovering. You know, some good old-fashioned tomb-raiding. It's a lengthy and gorgeous adventure with a lot of variety that represents a great step up from Crystal Dynamics' previous effort. Rise's premise feels ripped straight from Indiana Jones, or the old pulp serials that inspired it, but the game handles its storytelling deftly enough that it's hard to care if it's all a little derivative. This sequel finds a more seasoned, confident Lara Croft chasing down a legendary artifact called the Divine Source in the mountains of Siberia, with the modern, militarized version of a shadowy ancient sect called Trinity hot on her heels. Lara's dad, the august Lord Croft, died in pursuit of the very same artifact, and the game interweaves some flashbacks and a little pining for his life's work into the quest in a way that isn't hackneyed or overbearing. More importantly, Lara's clashes with fanatical Trinity operatives and her dealings with the mountainous region's mysterious locals provide for some fun twists and turns that aren't much less satisfying even when you see a few of them coming. In contrast to the first game, which had you murdering mercs by the dozens and then abruptly remembered to go "oh hey supernatural stuff!" in the last third, this game creates a more slow-and-steady build toward its mystical reveals that makes them more enjoyable when they inevitably happen. The story beats feel a little more earned here than they did in the last game, partly because a good bit of the flavor text that appears in collectibles and even overheard dialogue successfully builds up and contextualizes all the people you're chasing and secrets you're uncovering. The new game has a nice sense of pacing. The story routinely sends you through 30 minutes to an hour of tense, tightly designed climbin'-and-shootin' sequences in linear, constrained areas--the stuff you expect from this kind of big-budget thrill ride--and then right around the point when you feel like it's time for a break, it pops you back out into one of a handful of expansive hub areas that are chock-full of shorter, less urgent activities. The first game toyed with the idea of wider levels that consisted of more than a single linear path toward the exit, but it didn't go far enough; there wasn't much to do in those places besides hunt for a few collectibles you'd missed. Here, the hub zones almost feel like little open-world maps unto themselves. Each one has a huge number of items and challenges to find, a collection of real live quest-givers (!) who dispense side missions (!!), and a handful of honest-to-god tombs (!!!) whose depths you may plumb at your leisure. The hubs also house a number of friendly NPCs who you can run up to and chat with, to get some extra story detail. It all works well enough to make me wonder what a truly open-world Tomb Raider from this developer could be. Doing all this side stuff felt worthwhile on its own merits, because the activities are all fun to engage with and because I like checking off video-game to-do lists. But the side missions and collectibles really feel relevant to the gameplay as well, since they all feed into an expanded version of the crafting and skill progression from the previous game. Generic collectibles like relics and logs earn you experience that feed your talent tree. Better weapons and attachments are scattered among the other collectibles. And the game's "challenge tombs" in particular each grant you a highly useful, unique skill you can't get otherwise. They're also where you'll find the highest density of ancient machinery to climb on and manipulate (and they mostly look really cool to boot). The antique scenery isn't relegated to the side tombs, either; the game is good about filling its critical story path with these kinds of big stone clockwork puzzles, as well. By the time I'd finished the lengthy Syrian tutorial area, I already felt like I'd discovered more intricate ruins than in the entirety of the previous game. Exploring and solving the forgotten secrets of some wise, vanished civilization is what I'm showing up for when I play a game called Tomb Raider, so it was a delight that Rise is more satisfying than its predecessor in that regard. Maybe it's my generally short attention span, but Rise's huge amount of variety in activities and challenges--and specifically the way it constantly doles out and gives you access to new tasks to accomplish--meant I spent nearly all my free time after I got a hold of this game playing it somewhat obsessively, attempting to hit 100 percent completion in each area. But you'll quickly realize you can't max out each area up front, because the designers are totally unafraid to get their Metroid on, frequently showing you new pathways you can't pursue until you acquire rope arrows, a grappling hook, underwater breathing equipment, or some other piece of survival gear. Valuable upgrades and some of the most interesting side content, like several of the challenge tombs, are locked up behind these sorts of barriers, so every time you get some new ability upgrade your mind will immediately call back to all those new places you can now go check out. The campfires that let you fast travel around are back from the first game, so it's easy to go back and get just about everything you missed, if you feel like it. I thought it was a really nice touch that the time of day now changes in each region when you go back, adding some much-appreciated variety to the atmosphere, and old areas are repopulated with more enemies to fight and animals to hunt. All that helps make the world feel more dynamic and lived-in, so it's a little less lonely and rote when you go back to clear out old areas. There's still plenty of combat to plow through here, though fighting bad guys in tactical gear doesn't quite feel like it forms the entire backbone of the game like it did before. And luckily, most combat encounters feel more dynamic and improvisational this time around, since you have some nicely expanded options in the stealth-kill and crafted-weapon categories. You're just as likely to descend on an enemy from a tree branch for a silent stealth kill, or grab a bottle and craft it into an on-the-fly Molotov cocktail, as you are to hide behind a crate and pop up to squeeze off a few headshots. You still do plenty of that too, but there are also some interesting late-game shooting abilities, mainly to help you counter more powerful enemies with shields and armor and such, that keep things feeling fresh. Despite all these improvements, the basic aiming and shooting still feels slower and more awkward here than I'd like, which seems to be a combination of slightly sluggish controls and a sometimes uneven frame rate. Owing largely to the amount of optional content, Rise of the Tomb Raider is a shockingly lengthy game. Even the core storyline feels longer than average for this kind of big-publisher blockbuster, but if you add in all the side content and backtracking, you're really going to be here for a while. The system-level clock on my Xbox One sat at 42 hours when I finished the game, some of which was due to letting the game idle at the pause menu and producing video content, but I'd guess I put a minimum of 30 hours of actual playtime into the game, maybe more. For total completionists, thankfully the achievements are largely geared toward goofing around in the world rather than forcing you to find every single last collectible (you only need to get most of them), and after the story is over there's even a little narrative justification to smooth over the fact that you can pop back out into the world and keep fighting and collecting. I wouldn't have complained about one or two more hub areas simply because they're so satisfying to explore, but it's hardly like the game is short on length and value. This is also a truly gorgeous game, through some grand and sweeping uses of dramatic lighting, a lot of really impressive character animation for Lara Croft as she swings, climbs, crawls, and leaps around, and just by virtue of the sheer range and complexity of the exotic environments on offer. As acrobatic as Lara is, some of the character animations can look a little awkward transitioning from one to another, and I saw some enemies bug out here and there while trying to traverse different parts of the level geometry. The Xbox One version of the game is conspicuously the only one releasing at launch, and while it's totally playable across the board and smooth enough in general, the performance was less than ideal in a couple of environments in particular, in a way that didn't live up to the sheer splendor of the visual design. If you're invested in playing this game and don't want to wait, get the Xbox version right now. But if you aren't in a huge hurry, this game should be a real looker on a well-equipped PC in a handful of months, assuming all goes well with that version. Nothing about Rise of the Tomb Raider is wildly original, but everything about it is executed with a high degree of quality and craft. The game nicely merges multiple styles of gameplay, tells a better story than the 2013 reboot, and leaves off with Lara Croft at the center of an expanding narrative universe that feels like it could become home to many more exciting adventures. The last game was a decent start, but for my money, this is where the new Tomb Raider really begins.

Buggy, yet beautiful. Occasionally broken, but robust in a way that few games attempt, let alone achieve. This has always been the push and pull of Bethesda's action/adventure/role-playing games. On the previous batch of consoles, it felt easier to work past the technical glitches--on some level, it was just impressive that games of that size and scope could even run on an Xbox 360 to begin with. But with each release, the "fun" of watching the games glitch out and behave in maddening and/or hilarious ways became a little less thrilling. At some point, I just want the games to work reliably. Fallout 4 follows in the footsteps of its predecessors, which is to say that it's a large, sprawling world filled with so many different quests and locations that most players will miss entire subplots as they scavenge their way from one side of the world to the other. That's also to say that it's occasionally kind of broken, from performance issues specific to the console versions to scripting glitches that might just prevent you from progressing to the same sort of "physics gone wild" moments that make for killer animated gifs and such. There's a great game in Fallout 4, but how much of that greatness gets through to you is largely dependent on your own tolerance levels for those glitches and how willing you are to play another game from the same template as Skyrim, Fallout: New Vegas, Fallout 3, and Oblivion. I liked every one of those games quite a lot, but I will say that I was a little disappointed with how closely Fallout 4 sticks to that formula of factions, exploration, and points of no return that you cross as the factions are inevitably pitted against each other and the story winds down. Here, though, you get to explore a brief, pre-war prologue and see a little bit of what life was like before the bombs fell, turning your Boston-area suburb into yet another super mutant-filled wasteland. You play a created character who entered a Vault-Tec vault devoted to cryogenic experimentation just before the nuclear apocalypse, so you spent the next 200 years on ice... except for one key moment, where some dirtbag and his scientist buddies thaw you all out to steal your infant son out of the arms of your spouse, murdering said spouse in the process, and putting you back to sleep. You wake up, unsure of how much time has passed, but focused on finding the kidnapper and getting your son back. Having a pre-war player character here is a cool idea that maybe doesn't get played up as much as it could have. As you're presented with things that any Fallout player would simply recognize as the current state of the world, the hero largely accepts everything without batting an eyelash. Every creature, from deathclaws to radroaches, is simply taken at face value, and the game's annoyingly generalized dialogue system rarely gives you the opportunity to express any incredulity at the state of this "modern" world. Actually, the dialogue system, which now just gives you vague ideas of what your character might say, failed me more than a few times by serving up lines that, tonally, didn't fit with what I was expecting. I'd rather just see the full text of the responses and not be surprised or forced to reload when the outcome is poor. Anyway, after your kid gets kidnapped you're released into the open world. From there, the first thing the game does is point you at your first quest and introduce you to the workshop and base building mechanics. It never quite makes clear why you'd want to build a base at all, but you can slap down structures, walls, turrets, sources of food and water, and beds to keep existing settlers happy. If you want more settlers in a base, you can build a generator and a radio beacon that attracts people to the base. Then you'll need to plop down more beds and make sure they have enough food and water. Theoretically, making your bases more attractive will also make them more susceptible to attack, but other than fast traveling into a base and discovering a few super mutants hanging around once or twice, this didn't seem to happen that often. More frequently, the bases you unlock and populate across the map will gin up combat missions for you like "go kill all the raiders/ghouls who are in this location." I was usually happy to help, but these definitely didn't make me feel compelled to build up and establish bases around the map. Even after finishing the game, I never really figured out why all that base-building stuff is in there. It feels pretty aimless, though I did end up enjoying cleaning up a lot of the scrap around my initial base and being able to store your crap in your workshop means you can loot the world (within reason, encumbrance is still a limiting factor) and not have to stash all your things inside some dead body or random toolbox. Though, of course, you can still do that if you're feeling "old school." Exploring the Boston-based wasteland ended up being my favorite part of Fallout 4. The surrounding areas are full of apocalyptic wilderness, complete with mutant dogs, giant scorpions, bands of roving raiders, and, really, the same sorts of enemies you've seen in previous games. Rummaging around the wastes and turning up old military bunkers, big radio antennas, satellite arrays that have been overrun by hulking super mutants, and so on ended up being the most enjoyable time I spent with the game. Venturing into the city itself is exciting, too, both because the areas of interest are packing in more densely and because the combat situations get way more frequent and hectic inside the city limits. I continually found myself getting run out of town by various packs of scavengers, raiders, and, eventually, the Institute's murderous synthetic humans, or synths. The fake MIT, spun out across hundreds of years underground, is one of the big boogeymen in the story, and large parts of it deal with that age-old question, "do sentient robots deserve the same rights as humans?" You can go a few different directions with that over the course of the game, but much like Fallout 3, I found that the way I wanted things to go at the end of the game wasn't even presented as an option, and the writing eventually pares things down into yes/no questions that feel too simple for what becomes a pretty complicated situation along the way. It's frustrating that there wasn't a little more nuance to things, though the weird thing about Fallout and its multiple endings is that I now feel like I need to go back to my hard saves at the different crossroad moments, where you cut ties with one faction to side with another, just to see if any of the other endings contain anything close to an attempt to how I would have resolved things if I wasn't just faced with a series of canned dialogue options. I suppose, on some level, it's a triumph that the game was able to get me thinking about these solutions at all. So many games fail to inspire even that. There are main quest lines, faction quests, and some side quest lines, and with the exception of the "just go kill these dudes" quests I got from my settlements, I found that most of the quests were worth doing. Tracking down a missing Brotherhood of Steel squad had me trudging all around the east side of the map, finding one fallen soldier after another, each with an audio log pointing me in the direction of the next distress signal until it culminated in something a little more worth seeing. You'll find wild-eyed fans of the past who ask you to take on the role of a pre-war radio drama superhero, complete with trench coat and gleaming silver machine gun. You'll investigate the old memories of dead men, you'll find other Vault-Tec vaults and determine what nightmarish social experiment those Vault-Tec assholes unleashed on each particular vault. Most of these things feel worth doing and are, really, pretty engaging, even if the writing isn't always perfect. Even some of your companions can serve up some loyalty quests. My favorite character in the game ended up being Nick Valentine, a synth who makes his way as a hard-boiled detective type. Having his crime drama insight pop up as I made my way around the world was fun and occasionally funny. Him being a synth also ties him into some of the game's more central events. The shooting's better and the slow-motion auto-aiming V.A.T.S. system isn't quite as necessary as it has been in previous Fallout games, though it's also been a balanced a bit to feel a bit less like a "murder everyone" button, too. Looting things from chests is a faster process, but overall, inventory and equipment management is kind of a hassle. You can favorite items, which makes them easily accessible from your D-pad, but doing things like comparing items against each other or swapping out your armor is an unfortunate challenge. The armor just sorts into a big list of everything, rather than neatly telling you "oh, here's all your left leg armor" and so on. Since ammo is a constant concern, I found myself carrying seven or eight guns for much of the game, to account for all the different types of bullets you might find out there. Ultimately, the 10mm pistol you get at the beginning of the game is still viable at the very end, as long as you perform a few upgrades along the way. So, when everything is working as it should, Fallout 4 is a great game. But the frequency with which the game starts flipping out in ways both small and large is a big disappointment. Many of these issues have appeared in previous Bethesda games. I've had random AI characters run up against me while I was mid-conversation, breaking me out of the conversation and forcing me to restart the dialogue. Guys will still photobomb your dialogue by walking into frame and shouting whatever their "hey, I'm standing near the player character, I should act alive" sentence may be. Sometimes the camera will be completely pointed at the wrong thing during dialogue. I got to a pivotal moment in the story and got to talk to a big bad guy while he stood completely out of frame due to a nearby desk blocking the shot. The lip sync rarely looks great. And we're still just talking about things that might happen while you're in a dialogue with another character. In the workshop mode, plopping objects down on slopes and slants means that you might see half of your structures just floating in mid-air. Companions like to block doorways, making it a hassle to move around tight spaces. I had my dog companion walk up the side of a wall and kind of just float in mid-air. Sometimes I'd turn around and find that half of Nick's body was just sort of stuck in a wall or floor. Dismissing a companion lets you give them a location to return to, in case you need them later. Once I dismissed my dog, I never saw him again. Is he still roaming around Sanctuary Hills? He's certainly supposed to be. Doors sometimes act weird, making them tricky to get through. I wasted around an hour trying to activate a quest objective and the game simply refused to budge. After quitting the game, relaunching a few times, fast traveling away and back into the area, and sacrificing my first-born, it eventually worked. I still don't understand why it started working. Things like this can make for fun complication videos, but it also shook my faith in the entire game. I eventually became afraid to try some of the weirder things in the game, fearing that it'd break a quest and prevent me from moving forward. That's a bad place to be with a game that's supposed to offer so much freedom. The different platforms add some unique challenges, as well. The PC version is the clear victor here, with somewhat reasonable system requirements, console command access for weird cheats and mods, and a smooth frame rate. However, the game's mouse and keyboard controls aren't great. The console versions have it much worse on the frame rate end of things. This goes beyond the normal variances and starts impacting gameplay, because it turns out that it's damned hard to aim a gun when the game is running as poorly as it sometimes does. It seems to act worse in indoor areas, and some people are reporting better results on the Xbox One if you install it to an external drive (something I tend to recommend across the board, if you're able). Late-game combat situations where you're facing a dozen or so angry, armed enemies in a tight space turn the game into a slide show. And since things still move in slow-motion when you activate V.A.T.S., it's not a great way to circumvent the console versions' poor performance. I'd go so far as to say that this game becomes a tougher sell if you're intending to play it on PS4 or Xbox One. But the glitchy technical issues appear across the board in every version of the game. In that, Fallout 4 is universal. As such, a big part of deciding if you want to play Fallout 4 becomes a personal inventory of your desire to either revel in these glitches or your patience at dealing with them, should they appear. As someone who has really appreciated this line of games in both its Fallout and Elder Scrolls flavors, Fallout 4 was still harder to swallow than I initially suspected it would be. It's another one of those games, for better and for worse.

When Star Wars hit theaters in 1977, the concept of the summer blockbuster was still relatively new (Jaws is widely regarded as the original). Its numerous sequels and prequels joined A New Hopes status as symbols of big-budget Hollywood escapism and the popcorn film. In many ways, Star Wars Battlefront feels like a popcorn game. From its slick presentation to its impressive visuals and iconic sound effects, Battlefront resembles Star Wars in almost every regard but longevity. The films have been cornerstones of pop culture for decades, but the game didnt offer enough content to keep my attention beyond the initial dozen hours. Nine multiplayer modes are offered, from sprawling 40-player skirmishes that feature lightsaber battles and X-Wing vs. TIE fighter dogfights to more modest 12-player rounds of capture the flag and team deathmatch variants. Four areas (Tatooine, Hoth, the forest moon of Endor, and Sullust) are represented, with several maps in each to accommodate whatever mode is currently selected. With the exception of Sullust (which was only referenced in Return of the Jedi), battling in each of these areas carries a certain novelty for fans of the films. Tons of video games have portrayed these iconic worlds in the past, but theyve never looked anywhere near this good. Supremacy is the marquee mode, with its player count and scale making it the closest analog to Battlefields Conquest mode. Whereas Conquest features several control points that can be attacked in any order, Supremacy features five points that have to be taken sequentially. Battlefront isnt the first game to feature a mode like this, but marching forward to victory (or falling back to defend a point) is made more thrilling when youre piloting an A-Wing or flanked by AT-STs. Adding to the Star Wars fan service are occasional power-ups that turn the player into one of six heroes or villains from the franchise. The rebels can control Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia, or Han Solo, while the Empire has access to Darth Vader, Emperor Palpatine, and Boba Fett. While all of these characters are significantly more powerful than the standard soldiers, the imperial forces have a significant advantage thanks to the powers of its villains. Boba Fett is particularly useful, as hes deadly at any range thanks to his wrist rockets and flamethrower. Flying around with his jetpack and eliminating rebels with ease is a blast, and hes a pain to pin down and take out if youre on the other side. Playing as Palpatine is almost jarring to see, as the old man can scurry around and essentially perform Psycho Crushers in between blasts of force lightning. Inhabiting any of these six characters is enough to turn the tide of battle, and playing as them does a great job of making you feel powerful. Battlefield fans are used to seeing other players wait around on an aircraft carrier for a jet to spawn, but Battlefronts vehicle and hero pickups are more random in nature. If you fancy yourself a good AT-ST operator, its not as easy as going to a specific hangar or spawn point and waiting for it to show up. Instead, the ability to hop into the pilots seat or inhabit one of the games heroes is tied to power-up icons that pop up in a less predictable manner than Battlefields vehicles (you might be hoping for an AT-ST but wind up with a TIE interceptor). Supremacy isnt the only 40-player mode, as Walker Assault pits teams of 20 against each other as AT-AT walkers march towards a rebel base. As the rebels, its your job to secure uplink points that call in Y-Wings for bombing raids on the AT-ATs. At designated moments in the battle, these ships will be called in to attack the walkers, which is the only time that theyre vulnerable to standard weapons. Once the bombs start falling, its up to the rebels to focus fire on the AT-ATs (especially their weak underbelly) with every power-up and special attack theyve got. These moments can be a lot of fun, as it feels like youre waging a battle against a seemingly-insurmountable force. Its tough to take the walkers out before they reach the rebel base, but it can be thrilling to see them fall if your team can strike the final blow. Playing as the rebels proves to be more rewarding, as there isnt much in the way of unique gameplay if youre on the imperial side. Piloting the AT-AT is possible, but that amounts to sitting in a cockpit far away from the action and shooting lasers into the distance. All of the vehicles are fun to control in the context of Supremacy and Walker Assault, but I was underwhelmed by the one vehicle-only mode. Fighter Squadron is set solely in the skies, spawning players in the cockpits of X-Wings and TIE fighters and other aerial units (with the Millennium Falcon and Boba Fetts Slave I playable via power-ups). These airborne units feel special in other modes, as theyre essentially Call of Duty killstreak rewards that anyone has access to if theyre in the right place at the right time. When everyone has a ship, their limited abilities and functional-yet-unremarkable handling is made more apparent. Rounding out the modes are variations on team deathmatch, capture the flag, and a few that are focused on capturing points (Droid Run has you capturing and defending moving droids, and Drop Zone subs in escape pods). Two others give you a chance to play as the star characters without having to hope for an opportune lucky power-up. Hero Hunt is an 8-player mode in which one player assumes the role of a named hero or villain while the rest of the group tries to take them down. Whoever lands the final blow becomes the hero, and points can only be earned while playing as them. This can be fun when youre the hero, but its frustrating to know that your chance to become one is determined by whoever happens to connect with the final shot. Heroes vs. Villains is a multi-round battle that pits three heroes against three villains, and the round is won when you take out the opposing three named characters. Non-hero players assume the roles of random grunts, and the hero roles are rotated through from round to round to give everyone a try as the more powerful characters. Its the best mode in terms of guaranteeing your chance to play as a hero, but the format boils down to your standard round-based deathmatch with no respawns (with added grunt characters that can respawn). The lasting appeal of any multiplayer-focused game is heavily determined by its progression system, and Battlefronts feels limited and unrewarding. Not every shooter can feature the insanely intricate level of loadout customization as modern Call of Duty games, but Battlefronts is bare-bones by any standard. Each round grants the player credits based on their performance, and these credits can be used to unlock 24 different cards that can be slotted into a three-card loadout. Included in these 24 cards are five grenade types, eight weapons, and five temporary bonuses that operate on cooldowns. As you reach higher ranks, youll unlock a jump pack as well as five traits that give you persistent bonuses. Some of these cards are really useful, with the jump pack standing out as it greatly increases your maneuverability. I got a lot of use out of weapon cards like the homing shot and pulse cannon, but most of the two dozen cards didnt spend a lot of time in my loadout. With so few customization options, I didnt feel like I was getting rewarded as I leveled up considering I was just unlocking the ability to purchase weapons that I frequently didnt want to use. Outside of the 24 cards are eleven primary blasters, but most of these feel pretty similar. They each have different ratings for damage, rate of fire, range, and overheating, but I didnt see much variance between them outside of a couple that are clearly intended for short or long range. All of the weapons operate without an ammo count, as overheating is the only thing youll have to worry about. Beyond unlocking more of the 24 cards and blasters, the only rewards youll get for progressing are more customization and emote options. Expect a lot of self-referential material in the latter, with mock lightsaber fights, Tusken Raider yells, and Darth Vaders notorious Nooooo! moment from Revenge of the Sith included in the list. Character customization is limited to a dozen humans with varying hairstyles, with a handful of alien heads becoming available at the higher ranks. Multiplayers progression shortcomings arent remedied by Battlefronts single-player offerings. Included are five training missions, a tutorial, an AI battle on each of the four planets (with an option to play as hero characters), and a standard wave-based survival mode. The latter might be good for a couple of rounds with a friend, as cooperative play is available online and in split screen. Outside of that, the only thing these missions did for me was make me wish for a full campaign that utilized the great controls and production values that this game is capable of. Its hard to not get caught up in the occasional moment in Battlefront if youre a big Star Wars fan. I loved stalking towards rebels as Darth Vader, force choking them as the Imperial March played. As I played as a Stormtrooper on Tatooine, I stopped for a moment to watch Luke and Vader battle with lightsabers as X-Wings and TIE fighters engaged in a dogfight above them. Theres a whole lot of Star Wars seeping out of every pore of Battlefront, and no amount of forced fan service took away from the fact that some moments in this game reminded me of the many things I love about the film franchise. If the impending release of The Force Awakens has you in the mood for a casual online shooter set in the Star Wars universe, this game can certainly provide that for a dozen or so hours. Battlefront initially checks all of the boxes for being a great Star Wars game, but its limited amount of content and lack of meaningful progression kept me from wanting to return for more than a brief visit.

Ive always admired game franchises that are self-aware about what they offer and really lean into the aspects that make them stand out. Saints Row is a good example, as it started as little more than a GTA clone with some silly humor mixed in. As the series went on, it forged its own identity by focusing on the absurd elements instead of attempting to ride Rockstars coattails. Just Cause seems to be following a similar path. Its first entry had its fair share of exploding barrels and a limited amount of stunt opportunities, but the game was played relatively straight-faced compared to its sequel. With Just Cause 2, Avalanche clearly took note of which elements people enjoyed from the original and introduced a lot more of it. More stunts, even more egregious barrel placement, and an awesome grappling hook that can tether items together helped make it a far more entertaining game than its predecessor. Just Cause 3 is Avalanches opportunity to be the Saints Row: The Third of the series, leaning as far as possible into open-world sandbox insanity. My hopes for this outcome seemed to come true upon first assuming control of Rico Rodriguez in Just Cause 3. Right away, youre surfing on the back of a giant cargo plane and armed with a rocket launcher with infinite ammo. Off to a good start. Within minutes of completing this first sequence, I was given two of the games biggest new additions - the enhanced tether and the wingsuit. Just Cause 3 doesnt dabble and make you finish a bunch of crappy side missions to get to the cool stuff. The game patiently waits until youre done firing infinite rockets at bad guys, and then immediately says HEY HERES THIS COOL CRAP. Thats not to say that the game doesnt reward you with fun upgrades as you progress. Throughout my 40+ hours with the game, I was earning new abilities, weapons, and vehicles at a steady clip by following the same basic gameplay format that was in Just Cause 2. As before, you gradually chip away at a tyrannical dictators grasp on an island nation by using your growing arsenal to liberate settlements. Avalanche seems to understand that narrative has never been Just Causes strong suit, as the cutscenes are brief affairs that involve someone telling you what to blow up. Youll hear plenty of radio chatter about how evil General Di Ravello is, but his lack of screen time means youll see his image more often in the context of statues that youre strapping C4 to or tethering to a helicopter. The process of liberating the island is more streamlined this time around, omitting the chaos score gating from Just Cause 2 (you still have a chaos score, but it only appears to affect leaderboard rankings). Instead of any kind of currency system, weapons and vehicles are unlocked by completing missions. Once youve unlocked these items, theyre available at any time via the rebel drop option in your menu. With no chaos or currency in play, the only thing stopping you from calling in whatever you want, whenever you want is a cooldown timer. It doesnt feel like theres much consequence to anything, which is a welcome feeling in a game that primarily serves as a vehicle for wanton destruction. With no currency or XP, theres no penalty for dying. If you die halfway through destroying an enemy settlement, youll respawn with all of your progress still intact (and your ammo fully restocked). If you unlock some goofy new weapon that you want to try out, go right ahead and use it to wreak havoc on the civilian population with no penalties whatsoever. Dont worry about being stingy on the C4, either, as your supply is infinite from the very beginning for some damn reason. Considering that the joy I get from Just Cause lies in blowing crap up in increasingly hilarious fashion, I welcomed this just have a good time approach. I rarely felt frustrated by unfair checkpoints or difficult encounters, and I never felt discouraged from experimenting with some stupid way to approach a situation. My limited moments of frustration with Just Cause 3 usually revolved around wonky physics and grappling mechanics, with Rico (or his vehicles) occasionally getting caught up on geometry in awkward ways. This was particularly annoying when participating in one of the many side activities that involve racing a vehicle. Most of these are of the standard race your car/motorcycle/boat/plane/wingsuit through the rings in under X time variety, while one borrows from Speed and tasks you with keeping your miles per hour over a set limit as you deliver a bomb to a target. No matter which variety of racing side mission I played, I always worried about some dumb rock or pole throwing me off course or halting my progress to the point of restarting. Most of the side missions went off without a hitch, but a few courses have annoying X-factors that you cant really prepare for. None of these side missions feel particularly unique (others include GTA-style rampages), outside of one that I enjoyed that involves tethering a magnet to your vehicle and delivering rare materials to a drop-off point. Theyre all worth doing in the long haul, however, as your progress in side missions is what unlocks new features like nitrous boosts and additional tethers/explosives.
Tethering vehicles to each other or the environment was one of the funniest elements of Just Cause 2, and the enhanced tether in this entry really opens up the possibilities, You can now shoot out numerous tethers at once, and retract them at any time by holding the left trigger. This functionality is responsible for many of my favorite moments in the game, from causing fighter jets to crash into each other to launching a dead cow cartoonishly far off of a cliff. Its good that causing mayhem in Just Cause 3 feels so good, because thats what youll be doing for essentially the entire game. Unlocking powerful late-game jets and helicopters is cool at first, but then you realize that theyre just another way to get from settlement to settlement to destroy the same fuel tanks, generators, towers, and satellite dishes that you see ad nauseam throughout the entire game. A couple of the games 25 story missions incorporate some nice setpiece moments, but the majority of them dont do much to differentiate themselves from the typical hey, blow this thing up routine (one odd outlier involved nothing more than driving a truck filled with wine casks for about two minutes). For a game that's almost wholly based around creating gigantic explosions at every turn, the PlayStation 4 version of the game has a difficult time keeping up when things get really chaotic. While liberating towns or destroying especially large items, the frame rate frequently dips dramatically. I never felt like I lost control over Rico or missed shots (thanks in part to the game's generous auto-aim), but it was disheartening to see these technical issues considering how smoothly the PC version ran even during the most explosive situations. A one-note experience isnt necessarily a bad thing when it delivers on that one thing exceptionally well. Just Cause 3 has occasional physics problems and a lack of variety, but its fantastic if you just want to drop into a world and immediately start blowing it up. Upon completion of the story, you can even re-oppress individual settlements purely for the purpose of blowing them up all over again. Its hard to complain about the gameplay feeling samey considering Ive spent over 40 hours in the game and Im still looking forward to going back and taking out more settlements. Avalanche clearly knows what this game is all about, and you should too if you want to give it a shot. If youre aware of the games limitations and youre still eager to blow an open world straight to hell, few games do it better than Just Cause 3.

The Witness provides further evidence that video games are approaching the same degree of authorship as more traditional forms of media, in the sense that Braid players will immediately recognize this as another game made by Jonathan Blow. Both games offer devilishly, sometimes painfully tough puzzles built around detailed logic systems that you're expected to intuit and employ with next to no guidance. Both have the uncanny ability to alternately make you feel like a genius and an idiot. Both games tend toward an austere style of philosophizing that can come off as heavy handed or self-indulgent, but which nonetheless seems to flow directly from the individual consciousness of their creator. The Witness matches and then surpasses the exhilarating a-ha moments of Braid's most unconventional puzzles, while also one-upping the simple, discrete platforming levels of Blow's previous game with a sprawling world that's as impressively interconnected as it is starkly beautiful and laden with secrets. This game has been dogged by comparisons to Myst throughout its production, but the comparison is so apt that it's hard not to use that old CD-ROM standard as a starting point. The similarities are overt--again you're a nameless, wordless protagonist exploring a deserted island full of bespoke contraptions and no small amount of mystery--and also tonal, with a softly brooding atmosphere punctuated only by your footsteps and the wind. But the way you engage with the world of The Witness is more focused than Myst's legion of various levers and dials, since all of your interactions with the game come in the form of maze-like line puzzles displayed on screens dotted all over the island. Hundreds of them. There's no inventory, no physics objects to play with, no jumping or even stepping off of ledges. Just panel after panel after panel to complete as you peel back the many layers of the island's intricate secrets. But The Witness is much, much more than just a series of standalone logic puzzles packaged up in a pretty graphical wrapper. Ferreting out the nature of the many different types of puzzles that exist on the island--how their individual rule sets work and interact with one another, what effect they have on their surroundings, and in turn how their surroundings can affect them--is 100 percent of what there is for you to do in this game, and the extent to which you have to really work for many of the solutions can be exceptionally gratifying as you fumble and reason your way through the game's many hours. As such, ruining any of the surprise about how these things work would do a disservice to the people who are really going to enjoy this game, so I'll try to be vague in describing what's in here, and I'd encourage you to read and watch no more about this game than you need to decide if you're interested in playing it. The game never offers a word of explicit tutorial, instead loading you directly into the game world and turning you loose to explore and learn and solve. Most of the island's distinctive areas offer a relatively simple starting set of puzzles that "teach" you the puzzle rules that apply to that area. In practice, the game doesn't spell anything out whatsoever. You learn entirely by doing, and the sparse information you can glean from the trial and error of figuring out the starter puzzles is immediately useful in some cases--allowing you to go forth and apply what you've just learned to more complex problems and push forward in the game--but agonizingly unclear in others. In a couple of spots, after being stuck on more complex later puzzles for hours, I had to return to earlier similar puzzles and simply stare at them, asking myself questions about how they worked and what sorts of pieces they were made out of, before the lightbulb flickered on and I could progress. But the lightbulb moment is why you play this game. It's certainly possible to overthink what it is the game wants out of you--in a few instances, I eventually realized the puzzle I was trying to solve in my mind was harder than what was actually in front of me--and in general, the puzzles in each area are consistent about adhering to the theme of that area, so frequently, you just need to stop and focus your thought process. The iterative nature of the puzzle design, the way subsequent harder puzzles build on the concepts and lessons you've already absorbed--not to mention the specific, nearly hint-less environment in which I played the game--often made me realize that I was actually capable of solving harder problems than I thought I was, if I just invested a little more time, modified my approach, and focused on different concepts or details. At those moments I had to consciously stop and ask myself what I could do differently (and I could actually feel myself suppressing that impatient urge to just run to the Internet for help), which actually felt like a fun little voyage of self-discovery. Absent any sort of guide or hints, you'll have to think, a lot, to put some of this stuff together. The puzzles run a fairly even split between two distinctive styles. Many are abstract problems that operate entirely on their own self-contained logic--typically signified by various colored symbols that appear directly on the maze screen--and feel like the sort of thing you'd see on a standardized aptitude test. Then there's a more organic style of puzzle that often requires you to look and think outside of the maze's borders to the larger game world to hit on a solution. Sometimes these two types of puzzles mix and overlap. Sometimes they subvert or seemingly break their own rules. Absolutely everything about both the puzzles and your surroundings is in play, from your perspective to the lighting to the type of input method you use. You learn very quickly that you can't necessarily take any detail in this game for granted, no matter how minor it might seem. That uncertainty creates a profound mystique, a feeling that anything could happen on this strange island where the rules of reality are more than a little flexible. It's hard to convey the range of creativity in the more complex puzzles and the way they integrate into the game's world without diving into a lot of specific examples, but the range is significant. It's the kind of thing you get really excited about and desperately want to share or discuss with other people when you see and solve it. It's great stuff. The Witness didn't need to be a beautiful game for most of its important parts to work, but it sure doesn't hurt that the island is exceptionally gorgeous. The art design takes a profound less-is-more tack, building a world out of simple geometry and sparse texture mapping, and instead focusing its attention on a strong use of color and lighting to bring out a significant amount of organic detail that's too exaggerated to be called realistic, but also stops short of becoming cartoonish. This saturated, brightly lit aesthetic repeatedly brought The Wind Waker to mind, which is about as respectable a comparison as you can make in my book. The game also seems to use the trick (one that I first remember making the zones in World of Warcraft so moody) of subtly shifting the color grading as you cross the boundary between regions, so that you rapidly get the feeling you're in a different place than the one you just left. That's a handy trick to have in a relatively small land mass that jams desert, swamp, ice, mountain, jungle and forest locations all together in close proximity. And again, the visuals aren't just for show; so many of the presentational aspects play into puzzle solutions and other secrets in clever, satisfying ways. Once again I'm sitting here wondering if I should drop a couple of neat examples to illustrate the point, but no. That stuff is too much fun to discover for yourself.

While everyone is free to play games however they want and I wouldn't begrudge anyone who wants to follow a guide and just see what this game has to offer, I got a tremendous amount of satisfaction out of exploring The Witness prior to release, when no hints were even available. Playing The Witness in a vacuum--and feeling the occasional frustration and desperation that come with sometimes not knowing what the hell is going on--acts as a nice counterpart to the solitary feeling inherent to your time alone with the sometimes stifling quietude of the island. I can think back on a handful of puzzles whose solutions felt a little clumsy, or where I came away not exactly sure how I solved what I just solved, but the vast majority of the puzzle solutions are some satisfying mix of inventive, elegant, and clever that made me absolutely delight in working them out myself. All that said, I highly doubt I'll ever figure out everything myself, and I envision a rabid community effort getting underway to plumb all of this game's deepest secrets--and there are some that seem to be buried really deep--shortly after release, much like what happened with Fez. The Witness doesn't get quite as crypto-crazy as that game did--you aren't going to be deducing an entire system of writing or anything--but a lot of what there is to find and solve in this game is in the same spirit. To be fair, there were a few puzzles that simply left me to yell angrily at the television and confer with a couple of similarly confused other reviewers before I finally got what was going on hours or even days later. Serious frustration is inevitable in The Witness, but in the era of ubiquitous walkthroughs and video guides, I can't really fault a puzzle game that goes to the occasional extreme. If you enjoy the sort of game where you frequently place your brain on an anvil and then hammer away at it until you either break it or forge a deeper understanding, you'll find a whole lot to like about this game. Much has been made about the length of The Witness, and all that ballyhoo isn't for nothing. It's possible to see an ending of sorts after probably two or three dozen hours, but reaching that ending only requires you to solve a little over half of the game's numerous regions (though ironically, if you don't at least dabble in the types of puzzles in a handful of specific regions, you'll be ill-equipped to finish the game's brutal final area). Once you exit the tiny starting courtyard, the only thing gating your access to every nook and cranny of the island is your own knowledge, and you're free to solve whichever of those regions in whatever order you want. In practical terms, some of the areas are dramatically harder than others--and indeed some of them require you to learn the lessons of other areas before they'll even make sense--but it's easy enough to traipse back and forth between puzzles in different areas whenever you get stuck, so your path through the game will undoubtedly feel more organic than simply knocking down one area wholesale before moving on to another. On top of what's required to "finish" the game, there's also an almost baffling number of other puzzles to tackle in this game that seem to have no bearing on the main campaign, as it were. The game is constantly teasing you with other sorts of less conventional puzzles and hidden areas that don't fit into the familiar categories you've been working with, and frankly after probably 40 hours in The Witness I still don't know what the hell a lot of those puzzles do at all, nor how to solve them, nor how to open up quite a few of the optional buildings, caves, and passageways that I passed over when I first saw them. Without saying too much, the game also contains what might be my favorite take ever on the video game collectible. If you were to do all this stuff yourself without just looking up a guide to breeze you through it, I have no problem believing that 80 hour figure that's been floating around to be roughly accurate. The hindsight of having "finished" the game, and knowing how much more there is left to do, makes the recent hand-wringing about the game's $40 price tag seem especially absurd. If you're wondering why there's no mention about any sort of story in this review, well, there isn't any to discuss, really. Braid told the personal tale of a failed relationship--and the inherent biases of the people involved in it--in deliberate fits and starts that made you reflect on what it was you thought the game had been trying to say by the time you finished it. The Witness is way less focused by contrast. It's best described as a loose meditation on epistemology and spirituality (not to mention literal meditation), which takes the form of a bunch of stone statues scattered around the world that pantomime exaggerated actions, and voice recorders that rattle off quotations from various scientists, religious figures, and other thinkers throughout the ages. A couple of the quotations resonated with me on an individual basis--there's a touching Apollo astronaut's soliloquy that feels extra urgent in the context of the present day--but the ideas as presented are too scattered to form much in the way of obvious thematic intent, and more than once I was left thinking "OK, and...?" after listening to one of the lengthier voiceovers. Your interpretation of this stuff--or indeed, how much you even care about it--will largely depend on what you yourself bring to the game, and if you're feeling especially snide you could certainly dismiss it all as overly artsy or trying a bit too hard. For my part I wasn't really put off by what the game was going for, despite sometimes feeling like I was being bludgeoned with a philosophy textbook, and all that quiet reflection certainly gives the game its own specific feel, for better or worse. Actually, the worst thing you could say about this stuff is that it's easily ignored (you don't even have to activate any of the voice logs), and given everything else The Witness does marvelously well, it's not hard to forgive it when its more self-indulgent tendencies assert themselves. As much as I hate myself for saying this game is more about the journey than the destination... well, it is. It's hard to believe nearly eight years have passed since Braid came along and helped elevate ideas about what smaller indie games could be, and while I don't think I'd say any game is worth waiting eight years for, there's also not a whole lot I'd change about The Witness or the time I spent with it. Slowly and deliberately exploring this resplendent island, picking my way through its elaborately constructed secrets, and occasionally bathing in the warm glow of revelation all cohered into a singular experience I'm not going to forget, or even stop thinking about, anytime soon. The Witness isn't just an example of how video games can be similar to other creative works; it's also a great reminder of the special things only games can do.

Across the dozens of Mario games released over the last few decades, no series has given us as much of a glimpse into the weird workings of the Mushroom Kingdom as the Mario & Luigi RPGs. For over ten years, these games have injected personality and humor into characters that, while iconic, were previously little more than yelping, go-karting avatars. Five games into the series, Mario & Luigi: Paper Jam invites the star of the Paper Mario series along for the adventure. While the game contains some frustrations that are unique to this entry, its engaging battles and entertaining dialogue ensure that it lives up to its pedigree. Naturally, the chaotic setup of Paper Jam comes as a direct result of Luigi being an idiot. After he screws up an attempt to fix a hole in Peachs castle, he accidentally knocks a storybook off of a shelf. It happens to be the book that contains the entire Paper Mario universe, so the real world Mushroom Kingdom is suddenly inhabited by scores of paper goombas, koopa troopas, and Paper Mario himself. Bowser meets Paper Bowser, and their first idea as a duo (after some bickering) involves their knee-jerk instinct to capture both versions of Princess Peach. Paper Jam sets up this story and gets you on your way in a far speedier fashion than previous games in the series. Dream Team (the most recent release prior to Paper Jam) was especially guilty of forcing players through laborious tutorials without any option for veterans of the series to bypass them. Based on new options this time around, it seems that Nintendo has learned from the past in a variety of ways. Every time that the playable trio (Mario, Luigi, and Paper Mario) learns a new attack, Starlow says little more than Hey, go into the Battle Guide if you want to practice how to do this thing. You can then practice the sometimes-involved attacks at your leisure with no consequences, or you can test them out in the field and hope to get it right the first time. Either way, youll never be forced to sit through a lengthy tutorial sequence upon earning a new attack. Other systems make Paper Jam feel speedier than its predecessors, as well. During almost any kind of cutscene or dialogue sequence, you can hold the R button to speed up whatever is happening onscreen. Save blocks are no longer present, as you can save anytime youre not currently in a battle (Dream Team allowed you to save anywhere, but still retained the save block system). Assist mode can be turned on and off with one button during fights, which indicates which Mario brother an enemy is targeting. If you really want to make the game easier on yourself, you can turn on an easy mode that makes your attacks more damaging, your opponents weaker, and gives you more time to execute timing-specific attacks. Paper Jam also doesnt wear out its welcome, as it can be completed in under 30 hours. I love these games, but Dream Team didnt do nearly enough to justify its 40- to 50-hour playtime. If all of these options to make the game easier arent enough for you, youre free to break a good amount of the game entirely if youre willing to invest in some amiibo backup. Any amiibo thats based on one of the core Mario characters (Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Peach, Toad, and Bowser), can be tapped to the bottom screen once to activate a variety of bonus cards. Some of these bonuses are minor (guarantee a critical hit, raise defense temporarily, etc.), while others can change the dynamics of an encounter or eliminate the challenge entirely. Early in the game, I had five different amiibo characters that could deal between 48 and 60 damage to every single enemy in every single fight. These actions dont cost an actual turn, so most of my battles could be bypassed immediately by pressing amiibos to the bottom screen and watching the attack animations until all of the enemies were dead. The amount of damage my amiibos could deal in the final hours of the game became less significant as enemy HP limits grew higher, but they can still make a major impact if you decide to use them. Despite the involvement of Paper Mario and the rest of the Paper Mushroom Kingdom, this is very much a Mario & Luigi game. Its sense of humor and battle system fit right in with the lineage of AlphaDreams other Mario RPGs, but the addition of Paper Mario comes with plenty of entertaining gags and gameplay quirks. In the overworld, Paper Mario can squeeze into small cracks, fold into a paper airplane to cross gaps, or roll into a tube and stretch himself out to grab items. During battles, he has a wide variety of attacks that he can perform in tandem with the 3D brothers, such as folding himself into a boomerang that they can throw at enemies. His entire health system is unique, as well, allowing him to create numerous copies of himself that can add jumps or hammer strikes to his standard attacks. The Mario & Luigi series has always featured engaging battles, and Paper Jams combat is my favorite yet. Having three characters to monitor and attack with hits a sweet spot between the sparseness of two characters and the overwhelming feeling from the four protagonists of Partners in Time. Considering that this is the fifth game in the series, I was glad to see that AlphaDream still has a ton of interesting and fun attacks up their sleeves.Recent games in the series have each featured a gimmick of sorts. Bowsers Inside Story featured a playable Bowser and giant boss battles that required you to turn the DS sideways. Dream Team had you fighting within Luigis dreams on the top screen while manipulating the (sleeping) real deal on the bottom. The quality of those sequences varied, but I felt they both had more to offer than the gimmick battles of Paper Jam. Eschewing the standard turn-based 2D style of the rest of the game, the new papercraft battles put you in control of giant, 3D versions of a variety of Mario characters. Taking out your papercraft rivals in these battles involves timing your own dash and jump attacks while avoiding their projectiles and minions. Controlling these papercraft characters doesnt feel great, and I felt like I was fighting with the perspective and controls more than I was with my actual enemies. Making these sections more of a chore are the sequences that come before them. In order to build your papercraft goliaths, you need to deliver a set number of Paper Toads to Toadette. These non-optional sequences are plentiful, and I rarely enjoyed any of them. Rather, I grew increasingly frustrated at the repeated hide-and-seek and stealth minigames that involved wrangling these Toads. These activities would have been totally excusable (perhaps even welcome) if they were relegated to being a side activity that rewarded you with extra XP or gear. As a requirement for beating the game, they become one of the lowest points of Paper Jam. Papercraft battles and toad collection busywork turned me off of some sections of Paper Jam, but I really enjoyed the majority of the game. It's disappointing that these new additions fall a bit flat, but you'll spend maybe four of your 30 hours with this game engaging with them. After the slow trek through Dream Team, the speedier nature of this game makes it a significant step up. Its dialogue is as hilarious as the series has ever been, even if I was hoping for some more amusing enemy banter (you wont find anything as memorable as Fawful or the Inside Story version of Bowser here). Most importantly, everyone in the entire Mushroom Kingdom is still inexplicably mean as hell to Luigi. Paper Jam isnt without some missteps, but the combat is better than ever and the game as a whole hits the charming and humorous beats that it has in the past.

Henry is a coward. Not one of those sniveling, cartoonish cowards you frequently see portrayed as villains in various entertainments, but an average one. The kind of mundane, run-of-the-mill coward just about anyone could find themselves becoming if the right (wrong) combination of circumstances happened to befall them. The circumstances that befall Henry would test anyone's resolve, and as much as we'd all like to think we'd persevere in the face of such a test, the greater likelihood is that many of us would do as Henry does: we would flee. We would look for the furthest place from the source of our guilt we could find, and we would hole ourselves up there until someone or something pushed us back toward civilization. In Henry's case, that place is the Wyoming wilderness during a particularly dry summer in the 1980s. He's taken a temporary job as a lookout for the park service, tasked with keeping an eye out for signs of wildfires (among at least a dozen other unadvertised responsibilities) in almost total isolation. His only contact is Delilah, a coordinator of sorts for the various lookouts in the park, who he only speaks to over a radio. In theory, this should be the perfect place for an ashamed man to decouple himself from the eyes of the world and wallow in his own self-pity, but almost immediately after his arrival, things begin to go terribly, strangely wrong. This is the premise of Campo Santo's Firewatch, an excellent mystery adventure game in the vein of Fullbright's Gone Home and Telltale's various licensed properties. Presented entirely from the first-person perspective, Firewatch puts players into the squat and stressed body of Henry as his shame-filled sojourn turns potentially hazardous. Via light interactive mechanics, familiar conversational choices, and spectacular production design, Firewatch unspools a taut and fascinating mystery that remains gripping for the vast majority of its four-to-five-hour runtime. In order to talk about what makes that mystery gripping, and how it occasionally falters, I will have to talk about Firewatch's story, at least in broad terms. If you have any interest in Firewatch, and want to remain purely unspoiled before playing it, take this as a recommendation that you do so. Stop reading here, and go play it. For anyone looking for a bit more detail on what goes on in Firewatch, read on. Firewatch's greatest strengths are its attempts to make the player feel completely cut-off from the world. Given that the game takes place before the proliferation of consumer-grade GPS, you have only a map and compass to guide you, which you must manually bring up and zoom in on. The little icon denoting your place on this map is Firewatch's sole major concession to video game convention. There's no UI to speak of, no directional arrow showing where your next objective is, no meters or other screen clutter to distract you from the environment you're tasked with exploring. That environment is largely wilderness, albeit a highly stylized (and surprisingly linear) version of it. If you've ever seen those classic WPA National Park posters, Firewatch's environment feels drawn straight out of them, painted with beautiful, bright pastels, and lit by a sun that at once feels realistic and otherworldly. Though opportunities for exploration are limited in Firewatch--the story shuffles you along a mostly set path--it's an environment you'll nonetheless want to poke around as much as possible, especially once you acquire a little point-and-shoot camera not too long into the game. Yet at the same time, the park offers up a haunting quality. Moments carefully placed throughout the story feed a growing sensation of deep paranoia in the player, giving you the sense that the wide open spaces you're trudging through could produce peril at any given moment. It helps that Henry feels like a physical presence in the world. You see his stubby hands as he fumbles with the radio and other objects, hear him huffing and puffing as he climbs ropes and jumps down from ledges. There's a sense that there is a real person here, and not a particularly powerful or even capable one, leading to a perpetual sensation of vulnerability. The game's minimalist audio also aids this sensation, underscoring the tension with rustles of trees, snaps of branches, and your own footsteps, with only periodic invasions by a moody, low-key soundtrack. Of course, you aren't completely cut-off. Delilah is often, if not always there, a simple radio call away. Delilah's presence is imperative to Firewatch's story. At the outset, she exists primarily as a mission giver. Over time, she becomes something more nebulous. She exists as both an ally and a possible antagonist. Her statements don't always add up, but often enough they do, so as to keep you wondering. You interact via a walkie talkie you carry around constantly. When a conversation begins, you hold down a button to pull the radio up. This presents you with multiple dialogue options. If you've played any recent dialogue-focused adventures, you know what's happening here. You pick the statement you think your version of Henry would make. There is usually a friendly answer, a less-friendly option, something witty or sarcastic to say, or you can just say nothing at all. Interestingly, these dialogue choices don't feel like they feed into any greater notion of player choice affecting the story. Occasionally an untoward response can lead Delilah to cut you off for a time, but that only lasts until the next big story beat. There's no big tally at the end of Firewatch that shows how many players chose one Big Player Choice versus another. At no point does the game indicate that Delilah will remember that. Instead, Firewatch's dialogue seems largely constructed to help the player shape their vision of Henry. Nowhere is this more apparent than at the beginning of the game, which sculpts Henry's backstory through a series of text-based prompts. The core beats of that backstory will always be the same, but how Henry chooses to react to those beats is left to the player. That's true of the rest of the game too. If you've played any Telltale adventure, especially the excellent first season of The Walking Dead (which Campo Santo's Jake Rodkin and Sean Vanaman worked on), this makes sense. There is a story here that is going to be told no matter what. You are given a degree of wiggle room to affect that story, but nothing more than that. There aren't wildly varying endings to experience, no major branching paths beyond the overgrown trails of the park. And that's OK. It's OK because that story is mostly excellent. The relationship between Henry and Delilah is well-built, and each character is given ample room to establish nuance beyond the player's initial impression of them. The respective performances from Rich Sommer and Cissy Jones are a huge factor in that. Sommer in particular nails the schlubby, awkward notes of Henry perfectly. The only knock is that dialogue occasionally leans a touch hard on quippy back-and-forth between the pair, the kind of writerly cleverness that sounds great as rhythmic dialogue, but doesn't necessarily feel true to how these characters, as distinctly human as they seem, might talk. Firewatch also occasionally betrays its own tension, sometimes very much on purpose, sometimes seemingly not. At its peak, Firewatch is reminiscent of the great paranoid thrillers of the '70s and early '80s. As mentioned before, as the mystery unfolds, a series of small, but increasingly stressful events take place that fuel what becomes an almost unbearable feeling of tension. A huge element of that is the environmental design--rarely has a game induced such dread in me through little more than subtle shifts in lighting and color--but the elements of the mystery play a big part as well. The key thing, and the thing I think a number of players will find themselves hung up on once Firewatch's credits roll, is that the game is ultimately not quite what it indicates itself to be. It offers up numerous red herrings that misdirect the player while building to a smaller, more personal conclusion than the scope of the mystery initially purports. This is not a bad thing in itself. The way Firewatch pulls its various pieces together, the way it untangles itself in direct parallel to Henry's own guilt-ridden existence, is very nearly masterful. But there are elements of that build-up and payoff that don't completely work. The story is a little too willing to quickly write off certain story threads, and not every piece feels completely, or even satisfyingly, addressed. The conclusion lands with intended effect, but as you start to go back and pore over every scenario the game presents you with, it doesn't all quite add up as well as you might hope. This game is straight-up gorgeous, but regrettably suffers from not-insignificant hitching problems on the PlayStation 4. There are also pacing issues. Firewatch suffers from an opposite problem to another recent outdoor adventure game, Night School Studio's Oxenfree. That game had terrific first and third acts, but felt like it was largely missing a second one. Firewatch rushes a bit through its establishing scenes and aims you toward closure with similar haste. Its middle, which makes up the bulk of the game, is brilliant. Yet it felt like scenes that would have more thoroughly established the evolving nature of Henry and Delilah's relationship early on, and tied up the individual threads of the plot in more organic fashion, were perhaps left on the cutting room floor. Ultimately, those criticisms do not prevent me from enthusiastically recommending Firewatch. Its occasional stumbles are largely dwarfed in comparison to the things it achieves. Its aesthetic pleasures are obvious even in screenshots, but its true triumph is in its confident storytelling. It is a game assured enough to deal heavily in the familiar tropes of the thriller genre while ensuring that the more personal story of its carefully crafted characters shines through. It is a game willing to take a hard look at the prisons we build around our more shameful transgressions, the isolation we inflict upon ourselves to keep the rest of the world from seeing our failings. It is a game about facing the menace of the external, insurgent elements that violate those self-imposed boundaries, like a creeping fire that suddenly, without warning, burns out of control. It is a game about fucked-up people that feel, genuinely, like fucked-up people. It is a game you should absolutely play.

XCOM 2 comes with two very different difficulties. I dont mean that it has two different difficulty options when you start the game (it has four of those), but in terms of there being two different elements of the game that I struggled with. One was fully intended by the developers, involving intense, chess-like battles against an alien force. The other was with the games performance, in ways that Firaxis clearly did not intend. When everything is working as it should, XCOM 2 is a fantastic sequel that expands and improves on the original in several ways. When things are falling apart, it becomes a frustrating mess that made me want to quit and wait for a future patch. As it stands today, the quality of XCOM 2s good elements made the game worth wading through some of its more infuriating problems. Set 20 years after Enemy Unknown, XCOM 2 sees Earth being occupied by the alien force rather than invaded by it. They won the war, assumed power, and now hold the human race firmly under their control. A resistance of humans has taken up arms against the aliens, and the player assumes control of their faceless commander. Rather than playing defense against alien invaders like the last time, the sequel has you going on the offensive against alien oppressors. While this doesnt drastically change the overall makeup of the game, it does have gameplay implications. A metagame revolving around constructing a base and managing a world map is back, but in a different format. Instead of building a stationary base, XCOM 2s home base is a captured enemy aircraft known as the Avenger. Without land to burrow into for expansion, you now add to your base by clearing out rooms of alien debris and repurposing them. Its functionally similar to the last game, but the aesthetics of the metagame have been altered in a cool way to fit with the new timeframe. I enjoyed flying around the world map in my mobile base, feeling like I was reaching out to other corners of the globe to expand XCOMs message. Going on the offensive also has implications for the boots on the ground half of the gameplay. Considering that many missions involve the human forces infiltrating enemy bases or strongholds, youll occasionally start with your squad concealed from the aliens. That adds minor stealth mechanics to the turn-based strategy, and its fun to try to set up the perfect overwatch ambush for when youre finally ready to launch an acid grenade into a group and announce to the enemy that youve arrived. Both halves of the game carry with them an inescapable sense of tension. A new danger in the metagame is the Avatar project, which is an alien weapon that threatens to cement the occupiers control of Earth. The progress of this projects development is indicated by a red meter at the top of the world map, which fills in as in-game time passes and the aliens construct new facilities dedicated to Avatars construction. I felt a sense of dread every time another red box was added to the meter, and it made me question every decision I made during the metagame. Was I spending too much time scanning for intel and supplies? Should I be accepting every guerrilla ops mission thats presented to me? Do I need to restart and prioritize different threads of research? I questioned myself at every turn, and found that the inclusion of the Avatar threat greatly added to the tension of the metagame. While the first game was no walk in the park when it came to its tactical battles, XCOM 2 ratchets the difficulty up substantially. After about 15 hours of struggling through the default difficulty setting (possibly made worse thanks to some poor metagame decisions in the early stages), I swallowed my pride and knocked it down to easy. Even then, I frequently encountered disastrous missions that left most of my squad gravely wounded or dead. Much of this difficulty is tied to powerful enemies, both old and new, that can cause chaos for your team. Vipers can use their long tongues to snatch your soldiers from behind cover, coil around them, and render them useless until theyre rescued. Seemingly innocent civilians can morph into hulking Faceless creatures that attack with powerful melee strikes. Stun Lancers can sprint across large portions of the screen in one turn, and immediately incapacitate soldiers with a swipe of their baton. Sectopods still represent an immediate and terrifying threat to any soldier on the battlefield during the late game. To combat these threats, players have access to a wide variety of classes and abilities when it comes to assembling their ideal squad. Rangers utilize swords for dramatic melee strikes, specialists deploy drones to heal friendlies and hack enemy robotics, and new psionic soldiers can learn several powerful abilities that damage or outright control your foes. In a game where your maximum squad size is six, its tremendously useful to bring a couple psionic soldiers to the battlefield and add powerful enemy fighters (complete with their own abilities) to your ranks. All of the classes feature interesting choices as you progress through the ladder of abilities, with some real game-changers becoming available later in the game. I particularly enjoyed my highly ranked rangers, thanks to the Bladestorm and Reaper abilities. The former automatically strikes at any enemy that enters melee range, even when it isnt your turn. The latter allows you to chain together multiple melee strikes, provided that the last strike killed the previous enemy. If you encounter several mid-level enemies in the same general area, its possible to go on a satisfying killing spree as you dart from foe to foe and strike them down with your sword. No matter how overpowered I made my squad or how easy I set the difficulty setting, I wasnt able to remedy the cavalcade of technical issues I had with XCOM 2. The most immediately noticeable is the inconsistency of its performance. I played on two computers, and the framerate dropped frequently even on one computer that clocked in far above the recommended specs. Camera angles tended to miss the action whenever they move away from the isometric perspective, like during action-cam shots and hacking sequences. On more than one occasion, the hacking screen was completely obscured by a wall, forcing me to click blindly until I eventually hit the initiate button. I was sometimes unable to move soldiers to specific squares, despite the UI clearly indicating that I should be able to. The action sometimes halted for 15 or 20 seconds at a time for no discernible reason, even when it was my turn (negating the possibility that this bug was caused by offscreen aliens moving around). Roofs of buildings would often remain opaque when I tried to move my soldiers on the floor below. Several missions forced me to reload earlier saves due to bugs that made them impossible to complete. One wouldnt allow me to evacuate my sharpshooter at missions end, and another wouldnt allow me to pick up a mission-critical objective despite clearly standing on the indicated spot. Another mission got caught in an odd loop that kept warping an enemy around the map and ragdolling him off a bridge, which repeated for several minutes before I gave up on ever regaining control. I had encountered so many of these bugs that I could only laugh when I tried to load the final mission, only to be greeted by a crash and the XCOM 2 has stopped working prompt. I want to come back and spend more time with XCOM 2, but it wont be for the bare-bones multiplayer mode. These one-on-one battles give you the initial novelty of getting to play around with enemy units abilities (an experience relegated to psionic mind control in the campaign), but waiting 90 seconds for opponents turns in less-than-engaging battles cant match the tension and progression from the single-player campaign. Its those two distinct difficulties that make me want to return to XCOM 2. The intended difficulty makes me want to come back to try things differently, to bump the setting up to normal and try to make smarter metagame decisions early on to see if I can hang in there and survive a second go-round. The difficulty I experienced with the games performance makes me want to wait a few months, and then return to see if this game that I thoroughly enjoyed will be patched enough to ensure that all of its difficulty was fully intended by the developers. I loved XCOM 2 when it worked, but its numerous bugs, glitches, and other performance issues severely handicapped my overall enjoyment of it.

Its been seven years since weve seen the console release of Street Fighter IV. Back then, it took the world by storm and single-handedly revitalized the stagnant fighting game genre. In those seven years, it has remained on top as one of the most played fighting games--even to this day--due to a regular influx of new content, characters, and rebalancing. But Capcom (and Sony, who stepped in to fund enough of the game's development to make it a "console exclusive") feels like its time to move on. Ready or not. Street Fighter V is here. Visually, Street Fighter V retains the 3D style of its predecessor, but with some stylish improvements. The new lighting, models, and painterly visual effects are striking and look great in motion. The overall tone moves slightly away from the colorful and cartoony side of SFIV and presents a slightly more realistic aesthetic. The games a looker. Street Fighter, you hot. Background stages? Not so hot. There are eleven new stages with some decent variety, impressive visuals, and an improved sense of depth. However, some of the background characters are poorly modeled and animated. They werent great in the last game, and look even worse now when contrasted against the otherwise beautiful action going on in the foreground. Sixteen characters is huge reduction from the last games tally of forty-four and many mainstays have not made the cut. Just eight fighters on this lean roster are returning from Street Fighter IV. The other half is a mix of fresh faces and fan favorites that we havent seen in action since the Street Fighter Alpha series. Its an eclectic group, but most of the roster falls into familiar archetypes and playstyles. Players shouldnt have any problem identifying with and picking up most of the cast. But Street Fighter Vs new hook, the V-System (Variable System), is what helps set the characters apart from one another and adds a considerable amount of depth to an otherwise straight-forward fighter. Its a simple system to grasp, but theres some lingo involved and each character is different. Heres the nitty-gritty and some examples in bullet-list form: V-System V-Skill - Costs zero meter. Example: R. Mika busts out a microphone, cuts a wrestling promo about Muscle Spirit, drops microphone, and her next command throw will do more damage. V-Trigger - Uses full meter. Example: R. Mika calls in her tag team partner to dropkick the opponent. V-Reversal - Costs one stock. Example: R. Mika just straight up does a Stone Cold Stunner. To summarize, The V-System mechanics add a lot of variety, theyre easy to perform, and R. Mika is pretty OK in my book. Critical Arts take the place of Ultra Combos, but now share a meter with your specials. Blow it on EX attacks if you need to, but those Critical Arts are something special to behold and provide some of the most impressive-looking attacks in the game. Several other notable changes to the engine are not as immediately apparent, but are nonetheless welcome and positively impact the flow of the game. A visual stun meter returns, giving a clear indicator as to when someones about to see stars and helps raise tension. There is now an input buffer leniency window. Thats fighting game jargon for the timing of things like link combos and reversals are easier to do. As an old man, with old man hands, I greatly appreciate this. New quick-rise options allow you roll to either side as youre getting up which goes a long way to help eliminate dealing with vortex and 50/50 guesswork situations. One of the biggest changes under the hood is that you cannot die from chip damage--the exception being from chip incurred by blocking Critical Arts. Traditionally, if youre nearly out of life and you block a special move, thatd put a big KO on the screen. But now, your opponent is forced to come to you and gives you more opportunity for a comeback. These small (albeit significant) changes have altered the dynamic from Street Fighter IV. High burst damage, proclivity to stun states, and less damage scaling make for some tense, exciting, and short matches. In my experience with the game thus far, Ive yet to encounter a single instance of the time running out. People are going for the jugular out there and its been fun as hell. Theres a lot to learn about this new Street Fighter, but Capcom seemingly expects you to find out a lot of it on your own. The game does include a forced tutorial explaining the most basic of basics like how to jump, block, and hit buttons, but only gives a truncated explanation of the V-System itself--V-Reversals are not even mentioned. It won't even tell you about the quick-rise options at your disposal. Challenge Mode, which could present some idea of what your character is capable of, is also not available at launch. These challenges go a long way in getting newer players ramped up and its puzzling to me that theyre not available from the get-go. Just hit up YouTube, I guess. Or you could always look at the in-game Capcom Fighters Network. Ive been hitting this mode up a lot. It serves as a portal to some community features like leaderboards and adding favorite players/rivals. Most importantly, its also a repository for match replays. If you know the Fighter ID of the player youd like to follow, you can search for them, or just do a general search for the character(s) youre interested in, and youll get a list of replays which you can watch. Im not at all against stealing tech and copying playstyles of people better than me and since every online match is automatically cataloged, you'll have plenty of options to learn new tactics from other players or scout out your potential opposition. Theres also a staggering number of statistics available. Or, actually, there's room for a ton of statistics. The game looks like it's set up to track all kinds of things, like the percentage of First Attacks a potential opponent has landed. But the stat tracking simply doesn't work. The vast majority of stat categories are just filled with zeroes. Presumably that's still being worked on, but as of right now it's completely dead. I mentioned Fighter ID. That is your platform-specific name. Street Fighter V is cross-platform, meaning PC and PS4 players can connect to one another. In fact, they play very well together. The downside to an agnostic network is that everything is tied to that Fighter ID, which is separate from your Steam or PSN name. Invites to other players must be made using that Fighter ID and not directly through Steam or PSN. Its a bit cumbersome at first, and there doesn't appear to be any way to link the same name across multiple platforms or accounts, but the benefit of cross-platform play outweighs this small inconvenience. Once you are online and logged into the network, you can queue yourself up for ranked or casual matches. Youll also need to set up your player preferences such as your fighter, their costume color, and favorite stage ahead of time as joining a match will bypass character and stage select. It speeds things up if youre only focusing on one character--and I think most serious players do--but having the ability to shake it up on the fly for casual matches would have been my preference. Creating an online Battle Lounge (which is a chill name for lobby) is indeed an option in the menu, and youll get a lot more freedom in your parameters. Character select before match? Sure. Want to run a First to 5? Go for it. How many private slots do you want? Like 4? Too bad. At launch, the Battle Lounge only supports two people. An update down the road will accommodate for up to eight people with spectating, but until then, you can only lounge with one person at a time. That's hardly even a lounge. It's like a casual match with the options that the casual matches should've had in the first place. Capcom has retooled its netcode and is now using a rollback style, similar to the highly lauded GGPO. In theory, the end result reduces the feeling of input delay and more closely resembles an offline experience. Mileage varies, of course. And if you have a bad connection, you might see the action on-screen do some crazy time travel forward and reverse stuff. Its a bad scene. Luckily, Ive yet to encounter much of this and Ive been overjoyed with how smooth nearly all of my matches have been--even in cross-coast fights. This is all completely dependent upon server stability, though, and Street Fighter Vs servers have gotten off to a rocky start. Upon launch, even logging in was a challenge, which gave us a look at how gracefully the game handles downtime and mid-match server outages. The answer? Not gracefully at all. If you're deep into the game's survival mode and the server drops, all your progress is lost and you're sent back to the menu, where you can attempt to reconnect. Costume color and title unlocks seem to be tracked server-side, as is all your currency. So playing offline won't get you any Fight Money, character levels, titles, or anything like that. The game doesn't seem to perform a resync when it reconnects, so this led to a situation where, if you played the story mode offline, you wouldn't get any of that currency unless you replayed the entire mode while connected. In the couple of days since launch, the servers have seemed to stabilize considerably. Matchmaking is mostly consistent and the only drops Ive encountered have been few and far between. For the most part--and perhaps the most important--the matchmaking and netcode have been encouraging, if not great. Occasionally, matches will fail to submit results, award points, or replay data. This is especially disheartening if youve just beaten a player ranked higher than you. Whether this is due to the opponent rage-quitting or just a general server snafu, is uncertain. Thats one of the more major issues, but several other minor ones exist in the network. Match statistics don't reliably populate, searching for a specific Fighter ID can be a crapshoot, and inexplicably replay data just goes missing. There are a lot of kinks that Capcom clearly still needs to work out in its network. f you find yourself needing a breather from online play, youll always have an offline versus mode and training room, of course. But aside from that, the single player offerings are scarce, not very interesting, or not even in the game yet. I mentioned the upcoming Challenge Mode, but another odd omission is an overarching story mode. Thats months down the road. Until then, there are individual character story modes that serve up a tiny bit of backstory and personality. Presentation-wise, these play out as gussied up storyboards with a couple one round fights against a brain-dead AI opponent thrown in the middle. Its a rough experience and feels unfinished or even placeholder. Several backgrounds are simply a screenshot of the 3D stages with a filter overlay. Theyre over quickly enough, I guess, taking maybe an hour to complete them all. Youll also gain some Fight Money (provided youre online) which is the in-game, earnable currency to spend in a shop that will also not be open upon launch. Zenny is another form of currency, but you pay real money for that. Either form can be used to buy future DLC characters. Premium costumes will cost Zenny while story mode costumes can be purchased with Fight Money. Though we haven't seen the actual in-game currency prices for new characters, Capcom claims that you'll earn enough Fight Money for the first DLC character (SF3's Alex) by playing through those brief story modes. Color unlocks are stuck behind the game's survival mode, which comes in four difficulties that determine how many fighters you'll have to face and how tough they'll be. Along the way, you'll earn points that can be used in that run to refill your health meter, give yourself a defense boost on the next fight, or raise the stakes by giving yourself a disadvantage in exchange for more points on the next battle. I don't especially want to play the survival mode. But I like unlocking costume colors and that's the only way to do it. So I'll play a little survival mode. Obviously, I have some very strong feelings towards Street Fighter V--positive and negative. The lack of single-player content is less of an issue for me personally and Im sure a lot of people feel the same and are really only interested in local or online versus. But there are a surprising number of modes and features that are either missing completely or coming later that should have been included at launch. However, I dont want to understate the fact that I am having an absolutely great time playing Street Fighter V. This is a really fun engine, I dig the new characters, love the reimagining of the old, and the netcode has been very good to me. Am I moving on from USFIV? Definitely. But theres not as much spring in my step as I hoped there would be. If you're looking for anything other than a solid fighting game with strong netcode, you should probably hold off until the game sees a few more updates.

Though I may have obsessively collected almost all of the animal skins and tried to craft every single upgrade in the past few Far Cry games, I don't know that I was quite ready for Far Cry: Primal, a game that rewinds time back to 10,000BCE, when even the weapons had to be crafted out of wood and various animal parts. The gunless combat ends up being more exciting than I initially expected, but Primal's forgettable attempts at a story and obsessive focus on crafting turns it into a pretty tedious endeavor. You're a Wenja, one of the three tribes at play in Far Cry: Primal. The two other factions, one who lives up north in the ice and one who lives down south and likes to burn things, are trying to stomp you and your kind out of the history books. So you set out on a campaign to find the other survivors of your clan, build a village, and take the fight to the other two groups. The game has cutscenes and attempts to make you care about the characters it introduces, but it really fails to successfully build tension as you go. Exterminating the leaders of the opposing tribes leads to basic, uninteresting boss fights that don't really wrap things up. When I finished what is considered the last main story mission, I didn't even realize I had achieved anything other than defeating a boss. The thin narrative keeps focus on the combat, sure, but it also helps ensure that all of Primal feels like one long, optional side mission. Compared to the previous games, there are more resources to gather and more opportunities to craft upgrades. Gathering includes the standard plants and animal skins from the previous games, though you'll need things like animal fat if you want to set your weapons on fire at will. You'll need hardwood and animal hides if you want to build more spears. You'll need wood and stone for arrows. The items used for weapon crafting are easy to come by, and as long as you aren't just running past every single resource node you see, you'll rarely run out. As in previous Far Cry games, you'll also need specific animal skins to craft bags and upgrade your weapons and personal equipment. If that all sounds boring, that's because it is. Previous Far Cry games did a better job of making the upgrades feel more meaningful and the resource gathering felt like a fun diversion with real rewards. Over the course of the game's first half, you'll go out and find specialist villagers. These people serve as mission givers back in the village, and some of them are also tied to specific sets of upgrades. Unlocking the higher-end upgrades requires you to gather stone, wood, skins, and more to build and upgrade huts for these villagers. You'll also acquire generic villagers along the way, and these members of your group provide XP bonuses over time. As much as I enjoyed this style of upgrade system in the past few games, the gathering and crafting feel like they're stretched to their breaking point in Far Cry: Primal. It's crafting on top of crafting on top of crafting as you gather materials to build weapons so you can hunt animals so you can upgrade huts so you can unlock more weapons so you can upgrade those weapons, all so you can hunt some more. (And maybe unlock an upgrade or two.) Outside of the game's final confrontations, nothing in Primal is especially tricky, and you're given so much meat--which is used for healing--that even sloppy players probably won't run into too many roadblocks. So going out of your way for additional upgrades doesn't feel like it's worth the effort. A lot of the standard Far Cry systems and mechanics show up in this open world, and the few differences revolve around the tools at your disposal. There are outposts to clear and horns that serve as the alarm boxes found in the previous game. But you can't just hang back with a sniper rifle and shoot up the entire location from a safe distance. Instead, you'll need the long bow to do that, and even that doesn't give you as much range as the old sniper rifles did. Beyond the bow and a a couple other ranged-only weapons, most of the weapons in Primal serve double duty. By default, you'll swing clubs and jab with spears. But if you hold the left trigger, you can throw clubs and hurl spears with surprising accuracy and often devastating effects. Unless you're facing a "heavy" foe, which is armored against your attacks, you can usually just toss one spear right through any opponent. I found the spear tossing to be incredibly satisfying whether I was hunting boars or taking out enemy guards. Since you can't carry many spears, tossing spears is usually followed by running over and collecting your spears before doing it all over again. If you don't feel like running, though, you can always get someone else to do your dirty work for you. Far Cry: Primal has a beast taming mechanic that lets you call upon some of the game's predators and have them watch your back. You can order them to spring into attack and attack a target, or just let them kill on their own and see how it goes. The beasts are incredibly helpful, but I occasionally had to mess around with dismissing and recalling them to get around some cases where my sabertooth tiger would get stuck somewhere in the environment. At least the stuck tiger couldn't take damage and managed to distract half the outpost while I slowly clubbed them from behind. I spent around 14 hours spearing and clubbing my way through the game's main missions while completing what feels like a decent chunk of side content, but the game still considers that to be around 36% of the game. There are tons of secondary missions that just show up on the map, and these are analogous to many of the secondary missions from the previous games. You'll find two guys escorting a prisoner, animals running amok on your people, and all sorts of little ambient things for you to... actually, I ended up ignoring most of them once my village's population got above 40, which is the requirement to upgrade your huts to the second and highest level. In a game filled with primary objectives that feel like busy work, the secondary and tertiary goals are probably not worth your time. Ultimately, that's my main issue with Far Cry: Primal. It feels like it has even less of a story than Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon has, but that's because that story is spread incredibly thinly across a large world that's packed with cookie cutter content. There's nothing inherently wrong with Primal, and I found the game's combat systems to be pretty exciting at times, but the structure of the game and most of the tasks you're given are one-note. It's a monotonous grind that gets a good lift from its approach to combat and a handful of other tweaks to the formula, but it's still the formula. And it's not an especially great take on said formula, either. Far Cry: Primal feels like it's trying to use every part of the animal, but the overwhelming majority of it is filler.Superhot began as a quick prototype with a cool mechanic, and now it's been blown up into a full-fledged PC release that refines and expands upon that initial concept in some cool ways and wraps it all up in an enjoyable premise. It'll also unlock some good, repeatable modes after you complete its story.

Time is (mostly) on your side in Superhot. Time is slowed down to an absolute crawl when you stop moving, effectively letting you pause, scope out your surroundings, and plan your next moves. Your goal is to eliminate all of the enemies in a level without getting hit yourself. So you can inch along, plotting out a path of murder that dodges every bullet and takes down every opponent. If you fail, you restart the entire level. If you succeed, the game shouts SUPER! HOT! at you over and over again until you decide to move on. It also shows you a real-time run of your play, which makes it look like you're some kind of stylish action movie bad-ass. The game rarely gets too thought-provoking in its 32 main levels, but figuring out the right steps to take in each situation is really thrilling. It also sets you up over and over again, with levels that have you, for example, starting out trapped in an elevator with three armed enemies. Can you punch one, grab his gun out of the air, use it to shoot the one of the others, and then hope that the last armed enemy fires his gun into the enemy you punched and stunned, giving you time to recover from the pistol's recoil and get off another shot? Or maybe you should just throw the damned pistol in that other guy's face, stunning him and giving you a little more time to react. Oh, by the way, when the elevator door opens, there are two guys with shotguns standing right outside. Good luck. The levels themselves can be phenomenal, but it really helps that there's an interesting premise to string you along from one situation to the next. It seems that you're playing a hacked game that some chat friend sent your way. You'll have access to a little ASCII-based (but still mouse-driven) OS that lets you poke around, play some silly little ASCII games, and jack you back into your stolen Superhot executable. The way the game uses this OS and the way it twists and turns it over the course of the game is really great. Though it might not be focused on telling you some huge, complete story, the little bits it gives you about the nature of the game you're playing and the world itself are enough to get your mind going and enough to give it a surprisingly satisfying conclusion. You'll feel like a bad-ass in the levels themselves, but there are also some stellar moments to experience for yourself along the way. Upon completing that progression, you'll unlock an endless mode that has various modifiers, letting you try to kill as many red dudes in 60 seconds of game time, or real time, or only using a sword, and so on. The endless modes spawn enemies into the world in waves and, as you might expect, it gets tricky fast. The action in Superhot is highly stylized, with stark white backgrounds that make the glowing red polygons of the enemies stick out in dramatic fashion. Items you can grab, like swords, bottles, pool balls, and so on, show up in black. It's a great look, especially as the enemies shatter apart into a mess of dissipating polygons whenever you deliver a killing blow. Outside of the action, the ASCII terminal has curved, tube TV-like display and a great phosphor glow that, when combined with the other details you're fed about the nature of things, makes it all feel like some weird, old '90s cyberpunk take on online communication, VR, and what it means to be connected. These disparate parts come together and come alive in some really exciting ways that I'll let you find for yourself. Upon completing a session, as your run plays back in real-time, you can use some rudimentary editing tools to save a clip of the action, which gets rendered out into a looping animated GIF sort of presentation and posted to Killstagram, the game's real, online service devoted to showing and sharing these short clips. This seems like it could be an effective way for the game to get out to more people, since some of these clips already look pretty amazing. They're also good for catching bugs, like the one time an unarmed enemy just kinda started marching in place on me, letting me run circles around him for awhile until deciding to throw a baseball bat into his stupid face. Even that was... strangely satisfying. All told, there's a few hours of action here before you unlock the endless modes, and those modes may very well keep you coming back for many, many more hours. It's a bit of a shame that there isn't slightly more to the core story progression, and the game could be better about surfacing high scores on a leaderboard or other details that might help make the main levels a bit more repeatable on their own. I breezed through that core progression in an afternoon, but enjoyed its little story hooks so much that I immediately started playing through it again to watch it all unfold and see if I missed any little clues about the world of Superhot. It's a strong action puzzle game with some incredibly tense moments that are certainly worth seeing for yourself.

Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare 2 is no more and no less than a vastly expanded version of its predecessor, and that's fine. As a sort-of-budget-priced, bare-bones game wrapped around a goofy shooter that was better than it had any right to be, the first Garden Warfare deserved a little more attention around the edges, and that's exactly what this sequel brings. More playable classes, maps, modes, unlocks, and plenty of other features combine in a followup that befits the surprising quality of Garden Warfare's core multiplayer action and reasonably justifies its full retail price. The most immediately noticeable upgrade in this sequel is a full 3D hub area that replaces the sparse menus in the original game. This "Backyard Battleground" is a single map that houses faction bases for both the plants and zombies, each of which contains roughly a zillion little kiosks you walk up to and use to access everything from matchmaking to stats to character customization. This initially struck me as a needlessly busy way to obfuscate the game's basic functionality, but once you get out into the gigantic neutral territory between the two bases, this hub map starts making sense. There's a neverending skirmish between the two sides that takes place in the big courtyard between the two bases--complete with a sort of defend-the-high-ground minigame you can start at any time--and there are a ton of little collectibles, treasure chests, side quests, and other doohickeys to discover in the neighborhood, sewers, and docks near that central courtyard. This hub map is a nice little diversion in between online matches, and if you spend enough time out there mixing it up, the game will start spawning in more and more powerful units from both factions, which also lets you quickly grind out experience points and complete the quests you should be picking up at every opportunity. Quests! The game's new sort-of-daily quest lineup is a major component of GW2's sprawling progression system. Every 48 hours, you'll get a big set of new objectives to complete (kill X enemies of a certain type, play three matches of a specific competitive mode, and so on) that will increase an XP multiplier that makes your individual character classes level up at a surprisingly speedy pace. These quests also grant stars, which you can cash in on treasure chests and base decorations in the backyard hub, and a healthy amount of coins, which you spend on blind-box card packs similar to those in the first game. Yeah, the game still relies on single-use item cards out of those packs in most of its modes, similar to Halo 5's warzone mode. And unless you're buying the most expensive card pack, which grants you an entire (random) character, you'll only unlock new characters piece by piece without any control over which pieces you're getting when. But you earn coins from practically everything you do in the game, not just quests, and the rate you accrue coins in GW2 actually feels pretty generous, all things considered. You can buy a single new character subclass after 30 or 45 minutes of decent play, especially if you're accepting quests intelligently, so while the randomness of the unlocks is a little irksome, at least the pace is nice and quick. The nice thing about the way the quests are structured is that you almost always feel like you're making progress on character levels and items on multiple fronts at the same time. One of the biggest new features in this sequel to a multiplayer-only game is... a big chunk of single-player content. I wouldn't go as far as to call it a proper campaign, though. Both plant and zombie factions have a lengthy, unique set of missions you play through by yourself, although these don't usually get especially elaborate and are mostly built out of modified versions of the existing multiplayer mechanics. A few of them offer a bit more custom design work and provide a few laughs in PvZ's cheesy but lovable style, though, and they all act as a good primer for some of the game's different cooperative modes (as well as a big source of coins early on). There's also a lot of excellent environmental art that goes along with these missions, and it's worth seeing some of the tremendous scenery the artists dreamed up as you play through that stuff. As long as you pick up some daily quests before you start doing the single-player missions, these are a decent way to spend some time between multiplayer sessions and crank through a whole lot of progression at the same time. At its core, Garden Warfare 2 plays just as smoothly as its predecessor; there's just a lot more of it. All of the first game's playable classes and subclasses are back, along with three new ones on the plants side that differentiate themselves well from the old classes and expand your options for crowd control, area-of-effect damage, and so on. The zombies have an equally long roster and feel more fleshed out as an equivalent faction now, rather than just the side you play when you don't end up on the plant team. Each side now has a total of seven character classes, each of which has six to eight variant subclasses to unlock, so you end up with a lot of options that fit into different play styles. There's a fair amount of unrest in the game's community right now about the strength of the Rose character on the plant side (enough that the developer has gone out of its way to address the feedback directly), and while I can't say I was thrilled at the few times when I went up against a plant team that was 90 percent Roses, I also tend to think that once you have a community who cares enough to complain about balance issues, you've probably made a pretty good multiplayer game. The game is fully stocked with different modes on the competitive side, and while they all hew close to established multiplayer-shooter tropes like territory control, bomb defusal, and so on, the huge mix of different classes and range of potential team compositions keeps the action feeling pretty fresh. On the cooperative "ops" side, you're still going through 10 rounds of wave-based survival against hordes of AI enemies. Occasional rounds will make use of some interesting mechanics that offer bonus objectives, and one of the AI-driven co-op missions in the plant campaign even features something akin to an MMO raid boss, where you're cursed by the boss and have to hunt down specific roving minions within 60 seconds or your whole team is wiped. (I keep hoping that one will show up in actual multiplayer, but it hasn't so far.) I wouldn't have minded a little more expansion on the co-op from the first game, maybe in the form of a wider range of static defenses than just the usual potted plants, but there are so many new characters to play and maps to play on that I'm OK with one more game built out of more of the same. It's worth pointing out you can also play ops by yourself with an AI team, which is fine on normal difficulty, but you wouldn't want to tackle that mode on a harder level by yourself. The AI never seems to be there with the heal beam when you need it. Just like the first game, GW2 does an amazing job of translating Plants vs. Zombies' mobile-centric art style into 3D, and this sequel pours even more particle effects, reflections, and explosions into the mix. It occasionally verges on too visually busy--it can be easy to lose your target in a gigantic mess when there are a dozen characters blasting away in close proximity--but generally, even the most hectic battles take on a sort of gloriously chaotic feel when everything is firing at once. The game looks noticeably sharper on the PS4 than on the Xbox One, but the PS4 version's frame rate can get pretty bogged down in heavy action, so controller preference and friends lists are the biggest reason to pick a platform here. Both versions seem to have a thriving community thus far, with matchmaking times that haven't lasted more than a few seconds for any mode I've tried since launch. With its less-than-full-price and short list of features, the first Garden Warfare felt like EA wasn't willing to risk much on the odd idea of turning a cutesy mobile free-to-play tower defense game into a console online shooter. It feels like a little piece of cosmic justice that while the Medal of Honor reboot failed to make any inroads with that audience, Garden Warfare somehow became a runaway success that warranted a full-priced, fully featured sequel. While a potential third Garden Warfare will need to do more than simply pile on additional plants and modes to justify itself, this quirky shooter's second installment ought to stay green for a good long while to come.

I really enjoyed much of my time with Tom Clancy's The Division, but I don't think it's a particularly great game. On paper, The Division is precisely the Ubisoft open-world template, where the side tasks are somehow even more repetitive than usual and tower climbing has been replaced with running up to a person or "situation board" at every safe house to fill in your map with a ton of little, cookie-cutter objectives. But the Diablo/Destiny-like nature of its occasional online play gives it a social hook that helps overcome the game's lame attempts at storytelling, its city full of repetitive tasks, and even its complete non-ending. It breaks down like this: if you tend to play these sorts of games by yourself and don't like it when player-on-player conflict can have consequences, you probably won't warm up to The Division. But if you like to group up and do stuff with a set of friends, The Division's competent third-person shooting and its main missions are engaging enough to keep you going. And hopefully the chatter with your friends about hockey scores or where to get the best steak sandwiches or whatever will be good enough to keep you moving through the game's more monotonous moments. The Division is an always-connected third-person shooter that lets you get into groups of up to four players as you take back a quarantined section of New York City from various looters and opportunists who are attempting to take control of the virus-laden city. It has a setting and a premise, but it's very light on actual story. Instead, the point is to get as much loot as you can. You can grab it from the dead bodies of your enemies. You'll find it in chests. You'll get it as a mission reward. You can even craft your own. But the real story in The Division is watching the numbers go higher. You'll find better armor with various stats. You'll re-roll some of those stats until you find ones that are to your liking. You'll slot mods onto your weapons and armor to make them more effective. You'll stare at stat screens that could have been laid out in a more informative manner and puzzle out which gun parts you should strap to your gun to make it great for murdering bad guys... or good guys, depending on what you're up to. The story doesn't really wrap up so much as it stops, as if it really wants you to focus on the numbers instead of the stuff you're actually doing. That stuff? Shooting people in the face and hoping that they drop cool stuff. But since this game is semi-realistic, all that cool stuff is based on real weaponry. So the standard leveling curve that you'd expect from an action-RPG is in place, but you're just getting the same guns with higher levels and damage numbers attached. One AK-47 fires just like another, but your level 30 AK-47 is going to do more damage than your level 8 AK-47. And both of them require you to empty a fair amount of your magazine into the opposition in order to bring down enemies that are at or above your level. You have to really lean on a hardcore suspension of disbelief to care about the proceedings, but if you're able to write all that stuff off as "typical video game shit," it's fine. While the side stuff may be monotonous, the game's main quests take you through some unique locations. You'll stomp through police stations, power stations, Grand Central Station, apartment buildings, and all sorts of other hastily fortified positions. They play like a good co-op cover-based shooter should. The action scales up if you're playing with other people and the AI, though prone to moments of complete idiocy, gets pretty good at flanking you if you aren't good enough at flanking them first. It feels hectic, and your various abilities and loadouts can make or break your team, especially at the higher difficulty settings. Those hairy moments, where your team is constantly saving each other and loosely coordinating attacks on waves of enemies, are the best that The Division's co-op side has to offer. Then there's the Dark Zone. The entire middle of the city is cordoned off due to extreme contamination, so naturally you'll want to go there with some friends and see what's up. This is where the game's hybridized form of competitive multiplayer surfaces. This zone is one large death trap, with enemies that are at your level or tougher. They'll drop good loot, but the loot is "contaminated." So if you want any of it for use in the rest of the game, you have to call in a helicopter at a designated extraction spot and airlift those items out. Extracting that loot requires you to fire a flare gun, which tends to alert another wave of tough enemies, who descend upon your extraction spot to take care of you. If you die, you'll drop your contaminated items and lose a chunk of Dark Zone experience points, which accrue on a separate meter. Also--and this is the important part--other players can turn "rogue" and gun you down at any time, giving them ample opportunities to steal your loot for themselves. Once you do significant damage to a human player, you gain the rogue marker, which alerts every player in your instance and gives them your location. If you can survive, you'll eventually lose rogue status and blend back in. This leads to tense moments around every corner, since you never know when another group of players might roll up on you, help you finish off some AI fodder, and then just turn on you in the process to take everything. Or maybe the guy standing next to you, waiting for an extraction, will get bored, get greedy, and try to take your stuff. The real consequences make every moment a nail biter. The only catch is that, now that I'm at the level cap, most of the loot I'm extracting isn't meaningfully better than what I'm already wearing. But since you can sell or break items down for crafting materials, the process of filling up on contaminated items is still valuable. The Dark Zone, naturally, works best with a steady crew of voice chat enabled players. You can go in alone and hope for the best, but every fight is rough when you're alone and you have no one to back you up if another player or two decide they want your things. That only furthers the Dark Zone as a divisive addition to the game. It can be a hassle to collect a bunch of cool stuff only to see it ripped away from you, but in an era where most games want to reward you even when you lose, there's something sort of refreshing in the way The Division does things. If anything, it'd be cool if this mentality was applied to the entire game, not just the Dark Zone. As it stands, the "regular" parts of New York feel barren. You never encounter human players when you're out on those streets unless you manually group up with people, and there isn't much to do as you run from one place to another. A city-wide Dark Zone would've made the entire game feel like a pressure cooker. Even just occasionally seeing another human player run up and help you take down a side mission at random would've been a huge inclusion. The city is visually striking in its design, with a lot of little detail and less repetition than you might expect from an open-world game. You'll see a lot of nicely devastated interiors and a weather system that makes snow an actual hassle, due to its impact on your visibility. The city changes a bit, too, as you retake parts of it, complete missions, and restore power. This all looks best on an appropriate PC, but the console versions still look great in their own right. My largest issue on consoles is seeing low-detail textures show up on up-close surfaces for a while before the "right" textures finally pop in. It's distracting. There's some good, ominous music used throughout the game, and things like gunfire are done really well. The sound of your weapon changes as you mod it, so silenced weapons sound appropriately snappy while loud ones sound messy and dominating. That sound translates roughly into threat, letting you pull aggro from enemies or reduce your own profile by going silenced, sort of like Army of Two. It's a shame that more attention wasn't paid to The Division's story. The side missions didn't need to be as repetitive as they are, and that's disappointing. But there's a real foundation here that makes this worth paying some attention to, provided you don't intend to just shoot your way through the missions by yourself. As a solo game, The Division gets quite boring, and trying to marathon your way through all the side stuff you'll need to do to unlock every upgrade feels more like a chore than a thrilling video game. But enough of the different components work well enough to make for a good start. At times I had my doubts, but I came out of this one wanting to see at least the first couple of planned updates and ready to play more, when it's available.

When I first started hearing the positive buzz around Stardew Valley, it was almost always mentioned in the same breath as Harvest Moon. As a result, I didnt expect it to be up my alley. In that series' heyday, I never played it because I stubbornly avoided anything that resembled a JRPG. With Stardew Valley, Id surely put a few hours into it at the office, record our Quick Look, and move on to the next game. That was weeks ago. Today, my in-game clock is nearing 70 hours and Stardew Valley is easily my favorite game of 2016 thus far. Even without tapping into any Harvest Moon nostalgia, its managed to pull me in and consume virtually all of my free time since I first installed it. Similarities to Animal Crossing initially stood out, but I soon realized how much more formidable of a time sink it could be thanks to its non-adherence to real-world time. I could only do so much in a single session of Animal Crossing before Id need to put it down for a day, but Stardew Valley lets you burn through as many in-game days, weeks, and seasons as you can until you fall asleep. Ive been breathlessly trying to explain this game to anyone that will listen recently, and its always tricky to determine where to start. A big box retailer known as JojaMart is the primary antagonist (if you can call it that) of the game, and the intro sequence sees your character working at their dreary corporate office. After opening an old letter from your deceased grandfather, you learn that youve inherited a plot of land in Pelican Town thats there whenever you feel the weight of modern life bearing down on you. You pack up your desk at JojaMart, and move out to the country for a slower pace of life. That "slower pace of life" isn't relegated to rote farming chores, however. There is no one gameplay loop that youll settle into on a daily basis, as there are numerous deep systems within Stardew Valleys Pelican Town. Ill spend a whole day rearranging the fence and walking path layout of my farm, and the entirety of the next one battling monsters and harvesting minerals in the mines. While your options are varied and numerous on a day-to-day basis, there are a few big goals that hover over your long-term time on the farm. The first of these long-term goals involves unlocking major upgrades to the town, and this can be accomplished in one of two ways. One involves collecting a large assortment of crops, fish, and other items in an effort to renovate Pelican Towns dilapidated community center. The other involves purchasing a membership at the towns JojaMart location, which results in the community center getting demolished to make way for a Joja warehouse. Choosing this route allows you to purchase the town upgrades with cold hard cash instead of the item bundles at the community center. The small town heart vs. corporate greed message isnt subtle, but it still feels far more rewarding to assemble rare items and witness the gradual restoration of the community center than it does if you opt to buy the upgrades outright. Assembling the various community center bundles is a lengthy ordeal, and Im still working towards finishing several of them even with the substantial amount of time Ive spent with the game. Another long-term goal comes in the form of marriage, and the pursuit of tying the knot showcases the great writing and personality that creator Eric Barone has brought to the denizens of Pelican Town. My first few weeks in town led to me thinking Id pursue Penny, and I lavished her with gifts and talked to her constantly in an effort to get closer with her. It wasnt until I was dozens of hours into the game that I realized I enjoyed my interactions with Abigail more (specifically that time that she invited me into her room to play a co-op console game with her). Im still working on the larger-scale objectives of finishing the community center and wedding Abigail, but my time with Stardew Valley has been constantly filled with the joy of completing smaller objectives. A constantly changing note on my desktop reminds me of the myriad goals I have at any particular point in time. My character will wake up tomorrow morning, and I can choose if I want to spend the day going after a fish I need for a community center bundle, collecting hardwood so that I can make more cheese presses, rearranging the layout of my sprinklers and scarecrows, cooking and delivering a meal to Abigail, taking the bus to the desert to fight my way through a dangerous cavern, or any number of other activities. It may sound overwhelming, but it never feels that way. Each day my character wakes up, Im excited to get out there and plug away at something new that Ive been working on. It doesnt even feel like a slow grind. Stardew Valley makes you feel like youre constantly on the cusp of another breakthrough that will change the way you farm or spend your time. Its exciting every time you get a new animal, upgrade a tool, equip a new weapon, unlock the ability to make a new kind of artisan food, assemble a community center bundle, or construct a more efficient way to manage your crops. Oh right, crops. If youre someone that looks at Stardew Valley and dismisses it as just a nostalgia-grab farming game, notice that Ive spent seven paragraphs talking about this game without even discussing that element. The conceit of the game revolves around starting a farm, but crop management and making money is simply a system for unlocking more and more of the charm surrounding Pelican Town. While Harvest Moon is a clear inspiration for much of Stardew Valley, the Animal Crossing influence is noticeable as well. Like in the Nintendo series, youll spend time delivering gifts to villagers on their birthdays, attending holiday festivals, donating items to a museums collection, catching fish, and upgrading your house. Those pursuits are still satisfying, but Stardew Valley makes them feel like just a small handful of the activities that you can choose to do. With full systems for farming, combat, cooking, crafting, relationships, and more, it feels like a far more substantial experience. On top of that, a seemingly endless amount of little joys can be found everywhere. I even love activities as simple as clearing farmland at night before I go to bed, watching a cooking show in the morning to learn new recipes, and riding my horse around town to deliver meals that I cooked for my neighbors. Even when you settle into a rhythm and feel like you know what to expect, the game tends to throw curveballs at you. Little cutscenes will appear seemingly at random, and some of them hint at town mysteries that I still cant explain. I went to bed one night expecting to wake up and go about my normal day, but a witch visited my farm while I slept and sprinkled something on my chicken coop. I beelined there the next morning to figure out what the hell happened, and found a black-and-red egg sitting amongst my standard chicken and duck eggs. After incubating this egg for a few days, a demonic chicken hatched from it. So now, I have a demon chicken running around laying demon chicken eggs and I have no idea whats going on. Other unexplainable things have happened, such as a fairy that appeared in the rain one day. Talking to friends about this game yields other mysteries, such as a secretive man that appears on the beach that I havent encountered yet. Extensive wikis and websites would likely spell these events out for me, but I love encountering the unexpected in Stardew Valley and wondering where it goes. Even if these instances are left unexplained, their inclusion adds a great air of mystery to Pelican Town. Creator Eric Barone has stated that he plans on continuing to add dialogue and events to the game in the future, so I hope to have a reason to spend dozens more hours in Pelican Town. Its staggering that one man developed this game, and its not a simple quantity over quality affair. Theres so much to do in this game, but that wouldnt matter if it all felt like soulless busywork. Barone has injected heart and personality into every element of Stardew Valley, from conversations with the villagers to the stellar soundtrack. Somehow, this one-man effort is almost entirely free of bugs. Ive seen two minor bugs in my 70 hours with the game, and he completely fixed one of them hours after being notified about it on Twitter. His work is a resounding success, leading to the formation of one of the most positive and enthusiastic gaming communities Ive ever seen (fans buying copies of the game for pirates being one of the more well-known examples). I went from never hearing about this game to absolutely falling in love with it almost instantly. Even after all the time Ive already put into the game, I cant help but get excited when I think about what my character will be doing in the next in-game year, or the one after that. Huge elements of Stardew Valley are still ahead of me, from getting married to finishing my work on the community center. Ive heard people refer to this as a podcast game, and while I agree that it could fit that bill nicely, Ive never felt the need to distract myself from whats happening in Pelican Town. Some might look at this and say its just a farming game, or that it borrows liberally from Harvest Moon, Animal Crossing, Terraria, and Rune Factory. While there are obvious elements present from these influences, they come together to form something thats wholly its own experience. Stardew Valley would be a fantastic accomplishment for a team of any size, but the fact that its a labor of love from one man is staggering. My time with this game has only become more and more rewarding as I go on, and theres still no end in sight. Like with any game, Ill eventually set it down and move on, but I have no doubt that I will have strong, happy memories of Stardew Valley for years to come.

Quantum Break is an ambitious mix of video game and broadcast television, where each act of action game is followed up by a big chunk of full-motion video shaped like a TV show in size and scope. Things you do during the game can make an impact on the episodes of the live-action show, which is a neat trick. The catch is that neither end of Remedy's latest project is especially great, leaving you with a lackluster third-person shooter that takes 20-minute breaks to serve you up a basic cable TV show that's hard to watch for a variety of reasons. It's a fantastically cool idea that simply doesn't pan out. The game opens with you, Jack Joyce, returning to your hometown to assist a friend, Paul Serene, with a time travel project, one that your brother is also working on. Things go awry and your friend is sent bumping around in time, where he gets some wild ideas about an apocalyptic event yet to happen and ends up in the past, with enough time to change things around in an attempt to save the universe from said apocalyptic event. Joyce, for his part, gets a set of time abilities, which you use in combat as you battle the probably evil Monarch Corporation. The game twists and turns along the way, as time travel tales often do, folding back in on itself to give you new context for past (or is it future!?!?!?!?) events. The particulars of the story aren't especially noteworthy, but as someone who will end up having at least some appreciation for a time travel story, regardless of its quality, I... ended up having some appreciation for the way Quantum Break's situation plays out. While Joyce may be the protagonist of the video game side of Quantum Break, the end of each chunk of action spins down into a decision gate where you briefly take control of Paul Serene and make one choice about how to proceed. This means you play as the protagonist and also decide how the game's antagonist responds to the threat that Joyce poses to his plans. These are binary choices and the game gives you a brief window into what each of the two decisions might mean for the next section. The game gives you a Telltale-like percentage after each choice, letting you see both how your Xbox Live friends chose to go and how the player base at large went. You won't make very many choices like this over the course of the game, and while each choice feels impactful in the moment, they often play out around characters that don't feel core to the plot. I didn't like playing Quantum Break enough to want to go back and see how the different choices panned out, but in terms of how it felt the first time through, the paths I chose ended up feeling slight and somewhat transparent, like you could see where different things might be stitched in or ripped out, depending on how you go. Shoot time juice out of your hands to stop time around an enemy. Or just hold the button down and cause a "time explosion" instead. After you make that choice, it's time to sit back and watch some TV. The game breaks up its action with episodes of a show that only focuses on Jack Joyce in the background, instead giving you some back story into characters that feel tertiary to most of the proceedings. Knowing that Monarch's main bodyguard/thug has a baby on the way might give you some insight into his character, but not enough to actually feel like that's meaningful information, especially with the way his character ended up getting handled in the action portion of the game, where he might as well be yet another faceless thug. The change in focus from the action to the show ends up making both sides of the game harder to follow and tougher to care about. It doesn't help that the show itself has a look, style, and tone to it that makes it feel like the type of action sci-fi show that gets wiped off of basic cable before its first season finishes airing. With few exceptions, the TV side of Quantum Break goes nowhere and fills in gaps that you don't really need to be filled. The important story moments still happen in the video game side of the package, though even those important moments are squandered by the game's ending, which feels thrown together in a "oh wow, we're out of game, we'd better wrap this up" sort of way. It's also worth noting that the TV-like episodes stream over the internet by default, which in my case led to uneven performance, with some episodes hitching up so frequently that the game finally gave up and asked if I wanted to just download the episodes. That's 75GB of hard drive space on the Xbox One, should you choose to do so. Actually playing Quantum Break means you'll engage in a lot of third-person cover shooting and some ill-conceived platforming. The cover shooting is buoyed by your time abilities, which let you do things like stop time around a group of enemies, shoot a bunch of bullets into a stasis bubble, and watch as it all collapses, forcing a ton of bullets into your enemies all at once. You can run faster than fast, letting you get close for melee takedowns. You can pop a time shield around yourself to block damage and have time to heal. You can... cause a time explosion that... kills enemies? You can flip on time vision to see any objects in the environment that you can pick up and/or read? It feels like the developers just came up with a set of abilities and slapped the word "time" on the front of each one. The gun handling in Quantum Break is pretty underwhelming and the powers at your disposal don't feel as cool as they probably should. In some alternate timeline, this game has abilities that work together and chain off of each other, creating a more satisfying feeling of flow in combat. Instead it's simple cooldown management as each of your powers is just about as good as every other one at taking down one or two enemies at a time. Eventually you'll encounter enemies that aren't affected by those time powers, which means you'll have to fall back to the game's mundane shooting on its own. Remedy has delivered fantastic action games with exciting shooting components in the past, and it's a real shame that Quantum Break doesn't follow in those footsteps. Puzzles usually take the form of platforming sequences. Perhaps you'll have to rewind time in a localized area to make a bunch of fallen obstacles get out of your way just long enough for you to dash through. Perhaps you'll have to run along a frozen catastrophe in progress and take a very specific path to get through. Either way, the movement in Quantum Break feels like Joyce is trapped underwater. It takes too much to get him moving and turning with the type of precision you'd probably want from an action game. Overall, the gameplay feels like it needs more variety, which makes the TV show side of things frustrating, since it features a car chase and other things that probably would've been more engaging if they were in the video game portion of the product. On one hand, Quantum Break fits perfectly into Remedy's timeline, representing something grander and more cinematic than the fake TV shows and other ambitious little elements that have worked their way into the studio's past work. But it's probably telling that I was way more excited to watch Quantum Break's fake in-game TV show on various TVs found around the edges of the game than the one that was actually produced and shoved into the middle of the action. There are a lot of sound ideas in the middle of Quantum Break and, hey, if you're a sucker for goofy time travel hijinks this game has that going for it, too. But those ideas are the only things holding this project together. The moment you look past that heady connective tissue, every single one of Quantum Break's individual elements fall flat.

In 2009, when From Softwares Demons Souls first arrived, it introduced a new formula of action RPG that challenged fans with its punishing structure as much as it intrigued them with its obscurant style of storytelling. Now, seven years later, the Souls series is among the most popular franchises around, and many of its major innovations have spread across the landscape of gaming. With Dark Souls III, From smartly seems to recognize that the series is ready for its final act. Unfortunately, while DS3 is narratively and mechanically a solid conclusion to the series, some major bugs dramatically hurt the overall experience on PC. When Dark Souls II launched, there was some question as to whether it was a direct, narrative sequel to its numerical predecessor. Any doubt of canonical connection is immediately dispensed with in Dark Souls III, as it quickly sets stakes that long term fans of the series will understand: The first fire that keeps humanity from fading into an abyssal darkness is fading yet again, and the Lords of Cinder--those who had previously done the job of keeping the flame lit--are shirking their duties. As the Unkindled, you must bring them into line by doing what you do in every Souls game: Exploring the treacherous ruins of fallen kingdoms, taking down monstrous bosses, and feverishly reading item descriptions to piece together the Whos, Whats, and Whys of everything thats happening. Though the Souls games have a reputation for challenge, the truth is that theyve always been pretty clever about subtly introducing complexity to the player. In some ways, though, Dark Souls 3 feels like it starts at Act 2, tossing you into the deep end much faster than previous Souls games. Within the first half hour, youll face a challenging first boss, start planning your character build, and maybe even dig into the weapon upgrading system. Its a smart decision, since many veteran players are familiar with the basics by now. This also allows players to concentrate immediately on the new stuff, especially the FP (Focus Points) mechanic. Shoved between the usual health and stamina meters is a new blue bar that is drained whenever players use spells or one of the special abilities attached to every weapon in the game. To keep that blue bar filled, players will have to dedicate part of their stack of healing Estus Flasks to a new type of potion (Ashen Estus Flasks) which can be used to recover that FP. The attacks fueled by FP range from powerful, guard crushing uppercuts to special movement techniques to strategy-shifting combat buffs, and testing out every FP ability I found contributed to the feeling of discovery that I always love in Dark Souls games. These special abilities also open the combat up even further, rewarding tactical consideration and mastery of your chosen weapon. There are, on the other hand, a number of ways in which Dark Souls 3 represents a less open, more constrained experience than its predecessors--or at least something that feels more constrained. While theres a huge range of armor, weapons, and spells (including a number of fan favorites from past games), the stat system in DS3 really discourages wild, experimental builds (at least for the first playthrough). Heavy armor users will get knocked around a bit more than in the past, while enemies seem to bounce out of a staggered state more often. Sorceries, pyromancies, and miracles all feel weaker than ever, though as in Bloodborne, magic seems to have a bit more bite in New Game+. The result is that balanced, hybrid melee builds do the best throughout the first playthrough--which is great if, like me, thats what you were planning on playing anyway. Otherwise, though, it could be rough. It isnt only the stat builds that can seem constrained, though. While the world has the same geometrically-connected design that so many loved in the first Dark Souls, the opening areas seem more linear than previous games in the series. In actuality, each of the opening zones does have a number of ways through (and out), but its not something that is readily apparent in those early hours. Where Dark Souls 1 felt like an intricately designed vertical diorama and Dark Souls 2 was spread out on an impossibly broad plane, Dark Souls 3 gives the impression that it is a line, pulling you from one boss to another, towards finality. I cant help but think that this is intentional. Its no secret that Dark Souls 3 is being positioned as a finale to the series, and throughout the 35 or so hours I put into my first playthrough, there was a constant sense of impending resolution. Though it still primarily delivers its story through its sometimes-obscure use of environmental storytelling and item descriptions, Dark Souls 3 is also perhaps the most straightforward game in the series. Youll find out whats happened to some major players in the series lore, get confirmation (or denial) of long running fan theories, and even have some pretty metaphysical facts about the world established once and, maybe, for all. In some ways, this is a disappointment: At its best, Dark Souls has been an unanswered question. I mean this narratively (Whatever happened to Gwyns third child, anyway?), but mechanically, too, as each game offers new combat, exploration, and stat-building challenges to solve. But its been seven years since Demons Souls first confused and intrigued. Ive gotten better not only at the particular obstacles presented in each game, but also at the process of quickly adapting and learning how to solve this whole subgenre of action RPG. Ah, um, I... My sword seems to be, ah... You know what, nevermind. This is fine. Everything is fine.

But theres another way in which Dark Souls 3 represents an incredible success for From. Like Metal Gear Solid 4, DS3 had the difficult job of addressing lingering questions without becoming a simple interactive epilogue. And it had to do this in the middle of a Dark Souls overdose. Between a strangely over-hyped release of a Dark Souls 3 t-shirt, an Eli Roth-directed cartoon ad for the game, and the endless spread of the "Dark Souls of X linguistic infection, it might be the case that Dark Souls has finally gotten a little too popular for its own good.

But it does it. It sticks the landing. Dark Souls 3 is able to reference its expansive history to build environments, boss fights, and narrative turns that leverage the last seven years of games, making both thematic allusion and direct, canonical reference to each Souls game and perhaps (if my headcanon is right (and it is)), even to Bloodborne.

Despite the #brand #overdose, DS3 is a reminder of why the familiar elements of Dark Souls have always worked so well: Poison areas still shake up your usual strategy of attacking and spacing because of the constant health loss; processions of enemy groups walk through the winding streets of a splendored city, demanding you to carefully pull one at a time else risk a running battle against an overwhelming force in an unfamiliar place. And theres more, too. The clanking of sinister mechanisms; the resigned laugh of a coward; the peculiar side quest that seems to suddenly stop only for you to find the grisly conclusion hours later while revisiting an already cleared location.


Dark Souls has always been a series interested in the blurry memory of history, and now it has its own massive history to allude to. There was a moment towards the end of the game that made stop in place and just soak in a particular arrangement of fortifications in front of me. Was that.... Id been there, I think, once, a long time ago. Or had the curse finally taken me, too? It was one of the most magical moments of the series for me, but in the way that in Dark Souls, magical means an uncanny blend of beautiful and disorienting.

Less beautiful (but still disorienting) are the crashes, at least on the games PC build as of launch. As a lot of folks have reported already (and as you can see in our pre-launch stream from a couple of weeks ago), Dark Souls 3 has been an unstable experience for many players. Approaching a new bonfire or loading into one and then quickly running away form it can cause a sudden hard crash, even for those who meet the game's system requirements. And it's worth noting that I also had crashes far away from bonfires during my playthrough.

This error is especially frustrating when you know that you did nothing to cause it.

Some of these were reproducible--I couldnt use an early game magical sword with a special aura without crashing, for instance. Other times, though, the game would crash without any clear cause. Though the number of crashes reduced over the course of my play time (and, strangely, my NG+ character no longer crashes in areas that he did 40 hours ago), it was the fear of crashing that I could never shake. Dark Souls 3 is already an incredibly tense game--will I be killed by whatever that is?, Is my build right for this boss?, Where the hell am I going in the dark and muck? But that tension slides from fun to frustrating when I also have to ask Will I randomly crash in the middle of this boss fight? And the answer, at least twice, was Yes, I will.

Early reports indicate that setting the lighting to low seems to hold at least some of the instability at bay, but its especially frustrating because the game otherwise runs well for me on my Nvidia GTX 760 with High settings. I can go hours and hours with only the occasional hiccup, and then suddenly I'm looking at my desktop wallpaper and left to wonder about where DS3 will decide to put me when I load back in. That said, it doesn't seem like this is a fundamental problem with the game's engine, and hopefully we'll see a fix issued sooner than later.

Thankfully, the console versions fare much better in terms of stability. On PS4, it runs at least as smooth as Bloodborne did and with much faster load times (with the trade-off of occasionally slow-loading textures.) On Xbox One, Dark Souls III runs at a noticeably choppier frame rate and a slightly lower resolution than the PS4 build, but it's still very a playable and stable and solid port of the game.


Its easy to recommend Dark Souls 3 on consoles with a single caveat: Much of what makes it work so well is the way that it does justice to the series own past, which just won't mean much for folks hopping onto the Souls train for the first time. My recommendation for the PC build has to come with a firmer qualification. Yes, I still really enjoyed my time with Dark Souls 3 on PC. Yes, Ill probably play through at least one run of NG+. But my enjoyment was seriously impacted by the unpredictable performance and crashing.

If youve stuck it out this far (and especially if you actually care about the world and lore of Dark Souls), Dark Souls 3 will prove to be a satisfying coda to your time with the series. I cant wait until the community goes into full lore-speculation and secret-finding modes. If Dark Souls needed to end--and all signs point to "Yes, it did"--Im glad it was able to do so with such singular focus and form.

Remakes and rereleases of classic games have been so numerous in recent years that theyve become a running joke. Whether its an HD shine on Twilight Princess, a remaster of a Resident Evil remake, or one of many trilogies and game collections, the current generation of consoles have no drought of material for those wanting a reason to play old games. Insomniacs newest offering lies a bit outside of this trend, however. Ratchet & Clank (2016) offers far more than a simple remaster, but also isnt slavish enough to its film tie-in to make fans of the series feel short-changed. This a fully featured reimagining of the 2002 original, with tweaks and additions that help tie it into the movie. Most importantly, it manages to do this all while feeling like a modern gameplay experience and retaining the chaotic fun the series has been known for all these years.

The improved visuals are especially noticeable during the train chase sequence.

If youve played the original (or the HD Collection version), youll notice the initial similarities. Many of the planets from the original make their return, often in the same order and almost always with the same basic visual style. Despite this, many elements within the stages themselves are different. Layouts are sometimes entirely new, and the placement of collectibles (and number of them) is totally different. Rarely did I explore a level and think oh yeah, I remember this part. Rather, it conjured up general memories of planet themes as I blasted my way through these stages.

By far, the most obvious upgrades to the original game come in the form of visuals and the weapon progression system. Insomniac takes full advantage of 14 years of graphical advancements and several installments worth of memorable weapons, and the end result is a Ratchet & Clank game that never feels like a simple throwback. Visually, its one of the most impressive games on the PlayStation 4. Enemies animate beautifully, the environments are gorgeous, and the action is perfectly chaotic with enemies, bolts, and explosions taking up every inch of the screens real estate.

Every enemy has a unique dance animation for the Groovitron, even bosses.

With this entry, Insomniac has created somewhat of a greatest hits collection of weapons, featuring many favorites that didnt initially appear until later in the franchise. More importantly, every weapon in the game features a robust leveling system. Having access to favorites like the Groovitron and the Sheepinator in this entry is great, but being able to forge them (and every other weapon) to your liking is even better. By beating the game and starting its version of a new game plus, you can further level each weapon from a maximum of 5 to a maximum of 10, complete with plenty of new upgrades to purchase. Other bells and whistles have also been added, like cheats and visual filters that unlock as you collect hidden gold bolts.

This reimagining of Ratchet & Clank is successful on every front. If you have kids that were just introduced to these characters thanks to the movie, this serves as one of the most effective movie tie-in games out there. If youre a longtime fan of the series, this entry will bring back fond memories of the original while introducing new elements and featuring all of the solid visuals and controls youd expect from an action game in 2016. If youve never played the series at all, there couldnt be a better jumping-on point to introduce you to the characters, weapons, and gameplay of Insomniacs flagship series. The only downside is that it doesn't do anything in particular to push the franchise forward as a whole, opting instead to act as a sort of "greatest hits" of the series' trademarks. Those looking for the next leap forward for the franchise won't get that here, but I'm plenty happy with it serving as a standalone encapsulation of all of the elements that make Ratchet & Clank great.

For almost two decades, Nintendo has been offering up Star Fox entries that vary significantly from the on-rails nature of the first two titles. As a fan of the originals, its been difficult to maintain my enthusiasm for new Star Fox announcements considering that the series has been so scattershot in format for so long. After wading through the Zelda-like gameplay of Adventures, the tank and on-foot sections of Assault, and the lack of traditional stages in Command, I almost lost hope in ever seeing a true follow-up to Star Fox 64. Now that Star Fox Zero is here and it seems remarkably similar to the 1997 classic, it leaves me wondering if its too little, too late.

Looking at the GamePad rarely gives you an advantage against bosses.

Despite Star Fox Zero's resemblance to Star Fox 64 in terms of visual style and stage format/progression, my initial concerns centered on control. In most of its pre-release messaging, Nintendo insisted that the cockpit view on the GamePad is a notable improvement to the traditional gameplay. Despite hearing this PR bullet point consistently whenever this game was mentioned, I was left unimpressed with what I saw of it at E3 last year. I hoped that the final release would showcase the reasons why it would allow for more precise aiming, but it never became apparent. Having a cockpit view on the GamePad and a third-person camera on the TV seems not just unnecessary, but confusing at times. This is supposedly for situations in which youre locking onto (and circling around) an enemy on the big screen, while still technically able to aim at other enemies in first-person on the GamePad. These situations almost never come up, and when they do, it feels distracting and disjointed to look up and down between the two screens.

While the GamePad functionality leaves a lot to be desired, it can be almost entirely ignored in most situations. Id recommend setting the controls to Motion Control only when pressing ZR, and focusing on the main screen only. By doing that, it feels like a traditional Star Fox experience outside of the few times it requires you to look down (when controlling a little robot in an effort to hack a panel, for instance).

Like the tank and submarine sections in 64, Zero sometimes takes you out of the Arwing and in control of various other vehicles. The tank is back, and a gyrocopter, buggy, and chicken-like walker are introduced as alternative modes of transportation. They add a bit of variety to the campaign, but none of the stages that feature them are particularly memorable (unlike the great runaway train stage in 64 that forces you into the tank).
The
The "hacking" sequences are less than thrilling.

Star Fox Zeros larger issue is that even though the format and gameplay are so similar to Star Fox 64, it feels like the time for this type of game has come and gone. If this had been released for the GameCube instead of Star Fox Adventures, I assume that it would have been almost universally praised by fans of the series. Virtually every element of the 64 entry is intact here. The campaign is largely Arwing-focused and features branching paths and secret exits until the final confrontation with Andross. Completionists can return to levels to collect all of the medals and try to beat their best kill score. Voice actors for the entire team return, and the dialogue features plenty of callbacks for nostalgic fans.

All of this would have been welcome in the early 2000s, but the years of disappointing follow-ups and the overall progression of industry standards leads to Star Fox Zero having the impact of an HD rerelease rather than a full sequel. Being able to beat the game in 2-3 hours doesn't help, no matter how many branching paths or lackluster challenge missions are included. Even the moment-to-moment action doesn't have anywhere near the impact that it had almost two decades ago, as this limited style of gameplay feels dated in 2016. Nintendo finally released the Star Fox game that I thought I wanted, but it leaves me wondering what place Fox McCloud has in todays gaming landscape.


After Naughty Dog released The Last of Us in 2013 to rave reviews and commercial success, fans of the studio were left wondering where the developer would go from there. The story of Joel and Ellie was seemingly complete, and another Uncharted entry seemed unlikely considering Naughty Dogs history of putting out a trilogy per console generation before moving on to a new IP. When it was revealed that the studios new title would indeed be Uncharted 4, many fans (including myself) were disappointed that we wouldnt yet be getting a new series on the PlayStation 4. We were ready for the next big thing from the studio, and Uncharted 3 already felt a bit too familiar to its predecessor. Im glad to discover that these worries were misplaced, and Naughty Dog has created another classic with Uncharted 4: A Thiefs End. While it shares plenty of elements with the entries that came before it, the bar of quality has been raised substantially to create the best game in the series.

Troy Baker's work as Sam Drake is some of his best yet.

There were times in the opening hours that had me doubting if A Thiefs End was a necessary sequel. Nathan Drakes story had tied up neatly at the end of Drakes Deception, and this new entry goes out of its way to establish a new character thats never been mentioned before in the series. As it turns out, Nathan has a brother. Sam Drake has been presumed dead for many years, but he suddenly reappears and complicates the more relaxed, civilian, and legal life that Nathan has settled into in the years since Uncharted 3. The stakes are higher than a simple treasure hunt this time around (because of storyline purposes that I wont spoil in this review), and Nathan not-so-begrudgingly agrees to untuck half of his shirt once again for another globetrotting adventure.

It takes several chapters for the game to really get moving, as its dead set on selling you on the character of Sam Drake. My early skepticism faded before too long, as Sams personality, storyline, and Troy Bakers voice acting creates a character thats critical to the overall experience from both a narrative and gameplay perspective. Hes only in one game in this four-game series (five if you count Golden Abyss), and yet Sam is responsible for more memorable moments than any other Uncharted character outside of Nathan or Sully.

Sam accompanies you during many of the games chapters, and having him by your side results in plenty of banter between the brothers that feels more natural than hammy. During stealth sequences, hell sneak alongside you and spot guards or take them out himself. Like Ellie in The Last of Us, he navigates these stealth sequences without any possibility of his presence alerting enemies to your position. When youre in melee combat with enemies, hell frequently pop up beside you to throw punches at your enemy or help you escape from their clutches. There were numerous occasions during the story that I thought I was seconds from death, only for him to pop up and save the day with a one-liner or some brotherly ribbing in tow.

Having an AI partner join in during gameplay sequences isnt new to the series, but it feels more fleshed-out this time around thanks to context-specific takedowns and the rapport between the brothers. Like Uncharted 2, the running theme of Uncharted 4 is doing everything its predecessor did, only much better. Everything feels more inspired than Drakes Deception, from the storyline to the setpiece moments to subtle gameplay touches and animations.

The new grappling hook gets plenty of time to shine.

One of my favorite additions to the gameplay is the grappling hook, which I expected to be a simple tool for moving from platform to platform. It does that just fine at predetermined grapple points, but it also comes with a variety of other uses. If youre swinging above an enemy and hit the melee button, Drake will come down on him with a tackle that causes his gun to fly from his hands. This would be satisfying enough, but I found myself smiling every time Drake finished this animation by reaching up and snatching the gun out of mid-air. Uncharted has always been great about letting you shoot from virtually any situation, so I shouldnt have been surprised when I discovered that you can fire weapons while swinging from the hook. While this level of control may not be uncommon for the series, its hard to not feel like youre in a big-budget action movie when youre swinging through the air while raining sub-machine gun fire down on enemies.

While the overall level of quality is up across the board, theres no doubt that this is still an Uncharted game through and through. Most areas are filled with perilous cliffsides that are covered in convenient handholds. A large number of platforms crumble or break the nanosecond you jump off of them. Solving several of the puzzles boils down to push that box over there and climb on it. Theres a lot of dangling by one hand as the camera swoops around to see Drakes face as debris crashes below him. Nolan North must have recorded no fewer than 600 takes of Nathan doing some variation of No no no NO NO. Its an Uncharted game. Its just a really, really, really good Uncharted game.

Praising the visuals in this series should be the least surprising thing in the world, but Naughty Dogs work on A Thiefs End looks impossibly gorgeous. To say its the best-looking game on PlayStation 4 feels like doing it a disservice. Its the best-looking video game Ive ever seen on any console, from the expressive faces to the realistic animations to a wide variety of stunning environments. Interiors feature a crazy amount of minute details, and many of the outdoor vistas made me want to just stand in place and rotate the camera around. Im not sure what kind of voodoo Naughty Dog has been practicing, but nothing on PlayStation 4 or Xbox One comes anywhere close to Uncharted 4s visuals.

Action sequences are as gorgeous as they are exciting.

More surprising to me than the graphical upgrade is the bump to the quality of the narrative. Ive always enjoyed the natural-sounding dialogue of the series, but the treasure-hunting plots never really stuck with me (no matter how many odd supernatural twists came from out of left field). For the first time, I found myself caring about the fate of these characters and their relationships with each other. Sam is a fantastic addition to the series, and Nathan and Elenas relationship presents several memorable moments by the time the credits roll. Nathan feels like more than a walking quip machine this time around, and A Thiefs End does a great job of presenting his various struggles after he presumably retired at the end of Drakes Deception. At times, the dialogue and relationships between characters resemble the heartfelt, character-driven tone of The Last of Us: Left Behind more than a summer blockbuster.

I appreciate the pacing at which the narrative is presented, and its especially apparent during one vehicle-based mission. In this fairly open section, Nathan is free to drive around the vast plains of Madagascar in the shadow of a volcano. Sully and Sam are in tow, and a lot of this time is filled with conversation between the three. Some is plot-centric, and some is spent reminiscing over old times. At a couple of points, the trio pause their chat as they stumble upon outposts filled with mercenaries. They hop out of the car, partake in several minutes of neck-snapping and gunfire, and then get back on their way and continue their conversation. Rarely does a gameplay sequence or a cutscene feel like it drags on for too long, save for a couple of chaotic areas near the end.

Characters from the past are unlockable in multiplayer.

Multiplayer is present once again, and present basically sums up how I feel about it. Its there, it features a few modes (team deathmatch, domination, and capture the flag), and it all controls perfectly fine. All of the solid gunplay and platforming controls are intact, but they lose a ton of their impact when removed from the cinematic presentation of the campaign. Theres fun to be had at times, like scoring a headshot on an enemy as he swings from platform to platform or charging your own grappling hook for a one-hit melee kill. If youre looking for a multiplayer mode that will keep you coming back, however, I dont think its this basic offering. Character customization options and weapon mods unlock as you play (or you can take a shortcut by purchasing Uncharted Points for real money), but theyre nothing thatll make Uncharted 4 the multiplayer game of choice for most shooter fans. If you find yourself enjoying it, however, the upcoming map and co-op DLC packs will be available for free.

The jump in quality from Uncharted 3 to 4 is similar to the ways the second entry trounced the original. Its still the same Nathan Drake partaking in the same ludicrous, death-defying action as before, but everything is done with so much more panache. I havent gone into detail about the specifics of the setpiece moments, as Id hate to rob readers of the Oh, WOW feeling that I had so many times during my dozen-plus hours with the campaign. There was a steady stream of moments that I loved, from insane action sequences that literally dropped my jaw to somber storyline moments in between bombastic firefights. Uncharted 4 isnt a perfect game...it runs a couple of chapters too long, some of the puzzles feel uninspired, and its multiplayer component is serviceable but largely forgettable. Those nitpicks are in no way significant enough for me to consider A Thiefs End as anything but the best entry in the Uncharted franchise, though. Its not even just the best Uncharted game. This is one of the most fully-realized action campaigns of all time, and it sets a new bar of quality for whats possible in the genre.


Expect a bunch of familiar demonic faces.

They sure don't make them like this anymore, but then I'm not sure they ever made them like this, period. The new Doom from id Software is an unexpected, masterful combination of hectic old-school shooting, smartly modern design conventions, sharp wit, and a lighthearted reverence, or more accurately, irreverence, for the hallowed legacy of Doom. At least three of those items aren't things I ever expected to see in another Doom game. After eight protracted years of development at id--a time period that included an acquisition by Bethesda, the departure of some legendary founders, and a complete reboot of this game's very nature--you could forgive even the most diehard Doom fan for setting their expectations pretty low. In light of all that, it's astounding this game ended up being as good as it is, but make no mistake: this is one of the most exhilarating, amusing, satisfying shooter campaigns in years, maybe ever.

There's a multiplayer mode and some slightly odd user-created content features in here, but the single-player campaign alone is worth the price of entry, and there are so many great things I want to say about it that it's hard to know where to begin. The best place to start is with the origins of Doom itself, since this new game picks up the tenets of its seminal predecessor and runs with them. The maps are big and complex, with multiple crisscrossing paths, locked doors, and a good amount of backtracking. The shooting is fast, it hits hard, and it never lets you stop moving for a second. You don't even reload your weapons. You don't even reload your weapons!

In short, new Doom plays like classic Doom, but with some modern twists. The big one is the "glory kill," a feature that lets you stagger any monster after putting a certain amount of damage into them, and then launch into a canned execution move that one-hit-kills them. Half an hour with the game allayed my fears that this feature was a concession to mainstream accessibility, for the simple reason that glory kills generate small amounts of health and armor. This makes them an essential part of the give-and-take of Doom's super-fast combat; do you dart into the fray for a glory kill to get a little health back, and risk getting mobbed by all the other enemies around? Similarly, the iconic chainsaw now requires fuel, which initially seemed... dumb. But every chainsaw kill generates a ton of ammo drops, so you have to use it judiciously and save it for when you need to pump your guns back up. There's a satisfying interplay between the benefits of guns, chainsaw, and glory kills that, when combined with the other ways Doom's combat has added to and improved on that of its predecessor, makes the fights in this game excitingly tactical.

One of the many, many things this game excels at: gigantic skulls.

Original Doom's combat was certainly frantic, but it largely played out on a single plane. New Doom expands on and adds verticality to this combat flow to a wild degree. The concept of hanging out behind cover certainly doesn't exist in this game. Instead you'll constantly bob and weave between enemies that chase you constantly, and projectiles that are just barely slow enough for you to dodge them. With a double jump and the ability to mantle onto ledges, you've got strong mobility options, but the enemies, even the big ones, are actually able to get around the environment just as nimbly as you can. Watching them scramble and leap between platforms and up ledges is one of those moments where you want to stop and marvel at how far enemy behavior in shooters has come--except you can't sit still, because the monsters in this game will hunt you ceaselessly until you reduce them to gore and cinders. It's another great element that makes the action feel like it just never stops moving, and it's a huge step up from shooters where the opposition largely hangs out behind boxes taking pot shots at you. As a rule I generally review games on their default difficulty, but I played through this one on Ultra-violence because, c'mon, it's Doom. This game is at its best when you're constantly one or two hits away from death, forcing you to stay on the move as you juke around imp fireballs and look for that next glory kill or ammo pickup to get you back in the fight. I don't feel this way about every game, but this one's combat is of that rare high quality that warrants the challenge.

The demonic menagerie, the comic-book sci-fi arsenal, the host of '90s shooter tropes; it's all classic Doom, from pinky demons to colored keycards (and skulls!), cacodemons to megahealth to the BFG 9000. And yet none of it feels dated. There's a ton of subtle, loving attention to detail in various sound effects, enemy designs and behaviors, and giant demonic skulls that evoke the look and feel of classic Doom without beating you over the head with it. At the same time, all of these elements are housed in a game that feels like the perfect blend of throwback gameplay and modern, upgrade-system-driven design philosophy. Upgrade systems seem anathema to the spirit of Doom, and thus you may be horrified to hear there are literally half a dozen different types of upgrade points, weapon mods, and challenge systems in here. But all of these systems feed back into and enhance the way you play the game in delightful ways, with weapon mods that encourage you to experiment with unconventional shooting tactics and a rune-based ability system that lets you pick interesting enhancements like extra air control, or unlimited ammo when your armor is above a certain threshold. Upgrading your weapon mods and runes involves fulfilling unique little challenges that are fun to complete in their own right, nevermind the gameplay benefits they yield.

The weapons, like everything else, are all Doom as heck.

The game tucks away secret areas just like the old Doom games did, and not only do these spots house a bunch of goofy easter eggs, they provide gameplay bonuses like extra upgrade points and the ability to get most of the campaign's weapons earlier than you would otherwise. One of the first available character upgrades will actually mark most of the secrets right on your map. This doesn't make getting the secrets easier, because finding where they are isn't the challenge; ferreting out and navigating the obscure path to actually get to them is. Accessing a secret feels like solving an environmental puzzle, and it's fun and very Doom-like to backtrack through a level that's quiet and devoid of enemies, exploring all the nooks and crannies to get everything you missed. Actually, my only major complaint about Doom's campaign is that the first half of the game trains you to expect you'll always be able to go back and explore for secrets, but then a handful of the later levels arbitrarily close doors behind you or block off your return path every 10 minutes, preventing you from backtracking to a secret you may have missed just a couple minutes before. At least you can replay any mission at any time and all previous secrets will feed back into your current campaign progress, but I would have appreciated more consistency in what's otherwise a really well thought-out exploration component.

Improbably, the one way this game both breaks from and elevates its predecessors is through its storytelling. If you'd told me prior to release that a new Doom game would have a plot at all, let alone one I'd become weirdly invested in, I'd have laughed in your face. After I'd played Doom, I was laughing for different reasons. This game hilariously, wordlessly sets itself up as a direct sequel to Doom II when, in the very first scene, your marine wakes up on an inscribed stone slab and finds his vaunted green armor enshrined in glyphs and candles. Yes, this game takes the original irrelevant video game protagonist, a nameless nobody so generic he's only ever been referred to as "Doomguy," and reimagines him as nothing less than a divine avenger so unstoppable that over the course of two games he left a Biblical mythology in his wake. It's so deliciously absurd I can't believe someone thought it up, let alone had the guts to make it the through line of a big-budget shooter from a major publisher.

The maps are gigantic, fun to explore, and full of worthwhile secrets.

And yet things just get crazier from there. The whole thing is set on a Mars that's become a galactic power plant by way of siphoning "Argent plasma" through a portal to the demon realm. Yes, mankind solved its ongoing energy problems by... fracking Hell. The game doesn't dwell on this point, but rather takes it in stride as it cynically explores the office politics of harnessing the devil for shareholder gain. I encourage you to check out every data log you can get your hands on, so you can read the employee handbook's guide to a level 3 demon contamination event ("Simply close your eyes, kneel down, and wait. Remember you can be as useful in death as you are in life.") or ludicrous corporate memoranda about the "project to weaponize the demons." An ever-present company hologram man hangs around to provide some great rah-rah corporate cheerleading. ("The road to Hell is paved with... Argent energy!") There's a lot of darkly comedic stuff in here, and it's all somehow gloriously stupid and extremely smart at the same time. Whoever wrote this game deserves a medal.

These days it doesn't seem especially worth mentioning how good a game looks unless it really goes above and beyond, but Doom is definitely one of those games. Naturally it looks the best on a PC with a current GPU, and damn does it look good there. It's also worth noting that it still feels great to play with a mouse and keyboard--provided you turn off the swimmy mouse acceleration--which a lot of games that are developed primarily with consoles in mind don't seem to manage these days. (To give an idea of just what a throwback this game feels like, one of my favorite moments came when I was curious how my old Geforce 670 was performing at home, and I instinctually hopped into the console and threw in "com_showFPS 1" without even thinking about it. Yep, definitely an id game.) The bigger story here is how incredible this game looks and runs on console, though. The console versions use significantly lower quality shadows, particle effects, and so on than on PC, but not only do they still look better than most other console games, the PS4 version I played through also ran at a locked 60 fps the whole way through. That performance is critical given how fast the combat moves, so it's great to see the game running so smoothly on console and looking so good at the same time. The days of massive generational leaps in technology between game engines--leaps that at one time were almost singlehandedly driven by id games--seem to be behind us, but it's nice to see id Software can still bring it with the best of them in graphics terms.

Doom has what seems to be a relatively in-depth user-created content system with perhaps the best possible name in Snapmap. Snapmap! Here you get a reasonably intuitive map-building interface that even works well on a controller, which lets you build levels by stitching together and reorienting a decent assortment of premade rooms. You can place enemies, define behaviors, set environmental triggers and sound sources, and so on. Snapmap has a nice matchmaking feature via competitive and co-op playlists, and these playlists currently offer some lovably janky maps with rulesets that are able to capture a bit of the feel of classic Doom deathmatch, at least moreso than the game's actual multiplayer mode does. There are also maps featured on the Snapmap community page that let you play rudimentary musical instruments and do some puzzle-solving, so the tools here seem geared toward creating weird stuff outside the standard combat. And the most-popular list currently features a remake of E1M1 (surely the shooter equivalent of 1-1) and several 10-second "EARN POINTS FAST!!!1" farming maps, so you know this is a proper user-created content mode. Unfortunately, id isn't planning to release more robust, traditional mod tools (though who knows what industrious PC modders will end up pulling off), and new user creations have only been sort of trickling out in the week since launch. As always, it'll take some time before anyone populates the store with really interesting maps, so it's tough to say right now what kind of legs Snapmap will actually have. But the tools on offer at least seem tentatively promising.

If you want to literally rip out this guy's heart and shove it down his throat, play Doom.

And then there's the actual competitive multiplayer, which a lot of players have gotten a taste of through several beta periods prior to launch. Where Doom's campaign is eminently true to itself and the Doom legacy, the multiplayer feels a bit too much like it's chasing other contemporary online shooters, what with its preset loadouts, single-use XP items, and two-weapon limit. Yes, it's fast-paced and has you bouncing through the air off of jump pads, and it comes with a standard assortment of team-based objectives modes (though, bafflingly, not free-for-all deathmatch) but it doesn't hearken back to Doom in the right ways. I would've preferred a multiplayer component that took more cues from the Doom and Quake era. The idea that you've got Doom multiplayer where every weapon isn't available on the map as a pickup just feels wrong (though at least the Snapmap matchmaking options somewhat act as a classic deathmatch substitute). What's here isn't bad, it's just a little too similar to other available shooters to feel like it's worth sticking with. It doesn't stand out from the rest of the market the way the game's campaign does.

Those other components are all well and good, but it's that campaign in Doom you absolutely need to see. The majority of Doom's original creators may have moved on from id by now, but this game still looks, plays, and feels like it was made by a group of people who not only understand Doom but respect and love it. It ticks off every item on a list of things a modern Doom should have, including several items you didn't even know were on the list in the first place. They may not make shooters like this anymore, but the runaway success of this game serves as long overdue proof that they really should.

Lighting is one of the few things that Homefront: The Revolution excels at.

The North Koreans are overwhelmingly powerful, but if only the resistance had Benjamin Walker, then everything would be different.

This is the contradictory engine that drives most of Homefront: The Revolution, and it encapsulates the games failed attempt to treat bleak problems of an alternate history America with simple, mechanical solutions. Homefront is a game that's more interested in telling you how grim things are than it is in showing you what makes your circumstances so dire, and rarely finds way to include you in its key moments of storytelling.

And throughout its roughly 25-hour campaign, all of these structural and narrative failures are coupled with frequent bugs and hackneyed game design.

I cant help but want to start this with my own if only statement, too. If only Homefront executed on its core ideas. After all, its a game with two totally solid premises: First, a speculative fiction setting in which North Korea (re-imagined as a technological, economic, and military powerhouse) invades and occupies the United States of America. Second, an open-world, first-person shooter that attempts to bring to an urban environment some of what the recent Far Cry games have done in tropical and mountainous regions.

Both of these premises have potential. Though it might seem uniquely suited to a sort of boilerplate, rah-rah nationalism, theres a place in my heart for alternate history stories about besieged Americans trying to survive while figuring out what the hell it means to be American anyway--Man in the High Castle proved that this sort of fiction has legs over 50 years ago. And, you know, What if Far Cry, but in a city seems like a sound enough idea to build a game around; urban environments may not have the same attraction for some as Far Crys idealized, exotic locales, but cities offer their own sort of beauty.

Unfortunately, Homefront fails to execute on either of these premises, offering only a glowering and inconsistent narrative and monotonous action spread over a game twice as long as it should be. Worse, these two goals collide head first, creating a game that is confused at best and virulent at worst.


It starts like this: What if the computing revolution sprouted out of North Korea in the late 1970s, with the Apple-like Apex Corporation eventually becoming a massive player in worldwide consumer, industrial, and military technologies? Driven bankrupt by foreign wars and poor economic policy, the US goes deep into debt to a booming North Korea, and when they fail to pay down their loans, North Korea comes to collect. America readies a defense, but theres a problem: Our military hardware all runs on Apex technology, and Apex technology has a backdoor built into it, allowing the North Korean government to flip a switch and win the war. Whoops.

Things pick up years later in an occupied Philadelphia where The Resistance struggles to expel the Korean Peoples Army from the city. Philadelphia is split into distinct zones (with a fairly hefty load as you travel between them). Half of the areas are red zones, bombed-out battlefields where the resistance fights openly against the KPA. The other half are yellow zones, occupied residential districts where regular folks try to carry on life in the presence of police brutality, american collaborators and well, thats about all were given really. Homefront never stops to paint a picture of civilian life under the KPA. What little detail it provides about the setting mostly comes through dry journal entries and laughable graffiti scattered across the game. But things are bad, Homefront insists, very bad. And the Resistance needs help.
KPA checkpoints look intimidating, but they're remarkably easy to take over.
KPA checkpoints look intimidating, but they're remarkably easy to take over.

Enter Benjamin Walker, an imprisoned soldier with the gift of gab and the key to driving the North Koreans out, or at least thats what youre told. As Ethan Brady--painfully silent Resistance grunt--you dont really see much of Walker in action, and the plan for revolution is never explained further than Once we rescue him, Walker will inspire people to rise up. Why is this absurd? Because Homefront goes out of its way to emphasize the disparity in power between the Resistance--whose weapons are nearly taped together--and the KPA--whose Star Destroyer-esque airships dot the skyline.

This disparity is central to Homefronts general design, too, at least for the start of the campaign. The KPA holds onto their territory with armed patrols, surveillance drones, and the aforementioned airships, which cast down glowing beams of blue-green light in search of any Resistance operatives. Health regenerates at a snails pace and healing items are limited, so open-air gunfights end quickly (and not in the players favor). Open conflict is deadly, and you learn early to avoid it whenever possible.


When combat encounters do erupt, Homefront has a few things going for it. First, the sound design is good and weighty, with hefty rifle reports cutting through increasingly tense ambient drone soundtrack. Second, when the game is running smoothly, combat can look fantastic--especially when the day-night cycle offers particularly cinematic lighting. Third, Homefront does a good job of illustrating the need for the Resistance to be flexible by offering weapons that can be modified (on the fly) in ways that go beyond attaching a scope or a silencer. Each gun is based around a core receiver which can have different fittings attached to transform the weapon in major ways. So what is first a silenced pistol can be transformed into an submachine gun, in the case that things get hairy. Or maybe you transform your mid-range battle rifle into a Freedom Launcher that launches explosive red, white, and blue fireworks (perhaps the only example of so-goofy-its-good design in the game). I eventually settled into a favored set of guns, but I still appreciated the novelty and quality of the games armory.

On paper, this should all be great, and sometimes it really does come together to produce something unique. Imagine: Youre deep into KPA controlled territory, sprinting from building to building, heading towards one of the numerous side missions (called strikepoints) while staying out of sight as best as you can. Youve managed to silently take down a few solitary guards, and have posted up on the second floor of a devastated brownstone so that you can safely recon the next length of land. Theres an armored patrol slowly rolling down the boulevard between you and your target, and thats why you dont notice the chittering of the drone behind you until its too late, its blue lights turning red in alert. It flies away before you can knock it out of the sky, and then you hear the distorted horn howling from above: The airship is here, and that means the KPAs troops are on their way. You pick a few off with your marksman rifle, but their numbers are mounting quickly. A sniper round finds your shoulder, and you realize youre out of medkits. Time to run.
Sometimes, vehicles seemingly lift into the air for no reason.
Sometimes, vehicles seemingly lift into the air for no reason.

Moments like this are the proof that the premise can work but theyre also all too rare. What happens more often than not is this: You run safely from one strikepoint to another. When you get there, you climb a few scaffolds or shoot a few guards, and then move to the objective point and press (and sometimes hold) the X button. Then youve done it, youve taken over the outpost or hacked the transmitter or destroyed the supply cache. Progress is even flatter in the games Yellow Zones, where you slowly build support among occupied population of Philly. After stabbing soldiers enough and tuning in enough hidden stereos into the revolutionary radio station, youre told to deliver a rousing speech to the citizens. So you walk up and hit the X button again and watch a cutscene of civilians hitting empty cars with baseball bats. Again, Homefront is more interested in telling you that a revolution is happening than showing you take an active, meaningful part in it. Success almost always feels this flat. Theres never the triumphant joy found in other, similar games that comes from taking over an outpost without being spotted or making it through a hard firefight through the skin of your teeth. Instead, things just sort of deflate once the action comes to a stop.

Poor interface design ensures that the action itself never feels dynamic for too long, either. Pulling up the map, an objective list, or any other in-game menu is a clunky endeavor that slows things down considerably. Tagging enemies requires you to bring up your phone, switch to the camera, and hope that you can pass the center of the lens over the enemy model directly: Any obstruction, even see-through mesh fences, prevent the camera from acquiring the target.

The bugs are even worse: Sometimes, mission objectives fail to load into the game entirely. Sound drops out in the middle of a gunfight, or else an inexplicable and banging noise begins emitting from the corner of an empty room in your safehouse. Unpredictable hitches in the action on both PC and PS4 are by far the most frustrating offender. (I didn't get a chance to check out Homefront on Xbox One). On PC, these last a couple of short seconds, but on PS4--which already has a framerate that struggles severely--the game would flat out freeze for upwards of 5 seconds. This happens every few minutes, so while it might not be too frustrating the first few occasions, by the hundredth time it had made the already monotonous game that much more exasperating.


But even if the performance is addressed in patches one day, the game's problems need a deeper fix. All of the tension of the early game decreases as Homefront continues. Once you complete a side mission, the surrounding region of the map turns blue and enemies largely stop spawning there, letting you travel unimpeded through huge swaths of the zone. Combat gets easier (and more avoidable), too. As you earn money and upgrade points, youll take less damage, run faster, and be even more difficult for the AI to spot. The problem isnt upgrading your abilities, its that the KPA never does anything to counter this. As far as I could tell, the KPA fielded the same enemy types from the games early moments through its lifeless finale. Within five hours, any sense of tension had been replaced by total monotony. What had once seemed like a map filled with dangerous ops turned into a muted checklist. Revolution has never felt this rote.

None of this would matter as much if the story of Homefront: The Revolution was a pulpy romp featuring outlandish heroes and four-color comic book adventures. Unfortunately, Homefronts story is self-serious, its characterization confused, and its narrative structure sags. As taking over zones get easier and easier, the games boilerplate characters shout more and more about how the situation is getting increasingly desperate for the Resistance. The first half of the game spins from one character to another, never letting anyone make much of an impression. Instead, we get familiar cardboard cutouts: Military Action Guy, Angry Punk Chick, Brainy Lady Who Does Machines, Black Pacifist Doctor (he says I have a dream, at one point. Seriously, he says it. Out loud. And hes wrong in the end.) Homefront especially botches a narrative of implied sexual assault and PTSD from just about every potential angle.
It's a shame that Homefront's characters have nothing clever to say, because they look pretty damn good.
It's a shame that Homefront's characters have nothing clever to say, because they look pretty damn good.

Which isnt to say that difficult topics should be off limits. Any of these characters, if written with definition, care, and a dash of actual humor, couldve been solid enough companions through the game. Instead theyre thin caricatures, undercutting any sense of drama or urgency once the supposed drama starts to unfold. Worse, through the first 20 or so hours, I could never tell if I was supposed to think that these characters were naive fools or noble heroes--and this ambiguity isnt artfully rendered, its just whiplash.

Retreating from Homefronts blustery and boring campaign and into its multiplayer Resistance co-op mode doesnt help much, though. On first blush, a co-op mode makes sense: There is a crowded field of competitive first person shooters, and nothing about Homefronts action is distinctive enough to separate it from the pack. Unfortunately, it turns out that the co-op field is also pretty crowded these days. Homefronts handful of multiplayer levels are repetitive, offering none of the surprising randomization that keeps similar co-op experiences like Payday or Left 4 Dead fresh. Likewise, Homefronts multiplayer mode requires none of the careful teamwork nor does it offer gunplay as enjoyable as Destiny, The Division, or the slept-on Syndicate. The progression structure in Resistance is leagues better than that in the campaign, forcing players to make tough choices about character abilities and specializations. Unfortunately, after playing through each of the missions a few times, a lack of content gave me no reason to keep grinding. If only it had a few more levels, maybe it could have kept my attention a bit longer.


I keep coming back to that desperate phrase: If only... Its a phrase that the Resistance repeats over and over: If only we had Walker; If only we had a tank; If only we had more people Sometimes the pacifist doctor or a pragmatic collaborator chides the group for their simplistic idealism: Shouldnt we aim for achievable progress instead of impossible utopia? Instead of If only we had..., shouldnt we instead ask Okay, what do we have and what can we do with it? This is a debate worth having--after all, its a debate that both of the major American political parties have been having internally for the better part of the last year. But despite the games earnest tone, Homefront never leaves space for these ideas to be debated narratively or mechanically. Instead, the dissenting voices are shut down and the Hail Mary pass is reaffirmed as the only way forward.


This is how, somewhere along the way, Homefront made me realize how pernicious If only we had... is. What comes after that rhetorical salvo doesnt matter so much: Whether its a complaint about leadership, economics, time constraints, or tactics, its an oratorical move that reduces a complex problem into something very simple: If only we could get rid of those people; if only we had better technology; if only we could go back to the good old days. It responds to dread by suggesting--demanding--an arbitrary and outlandish fix or a magical solution. This is the first ingredient necessary (though not sufficient) to begin a fascistic movement, which means that Homefront fails even as a hurrah to American Greatness. After all, to the degree that any America--fictional or real--has ever been great, it has not been because of magical solutions. Its because of the truly difficult work of complicated and fallible people, plus a great deal of luck and timing.

At its fearful root, theres something hopeful about if only. It suggests improvement is possible. And so, I find myself wanting to say my own versions of the phrase. Theres that one striking image in Homefront: The Korean airship, its curved back and sharp nose, a shark skimming a scorched city skyline, a thing of mobile death. And its so hard not to say: If only Homefront could do justice to that image. But doing justice requires more than one great effort, one great image.

And so other if only statements start to roll in: If only Homefront wasnt so buggy...; If only it was a little more difficult...; If only its development wasnt so troubled But there is no single, special solution to the problems that Homefront has. It is a dull game that fails to offer more than passing enjoyment, hitching and glitching all along the way. It offers a middling co-operative mode in a field filled with games trying to innovate in that space. It struggles to say anything--even something bombastic and cartoonish--about crisis, nationality, or revolution. It tries to roar America, but instead coughs out a few, unintelligible grunts.

Evil stealth robots are just the start of your troubles.

At first glance, Playdead's second game Inside seems like a better-looking retread of its breakout indie hit Limbo, in that you're another faceless child who wordlessly starts off in a forest, running to the right while occasionally pushing, pulling, and jumping over things. But you can't spend more than a few minutes with this game before realizing how much Playdead's ambitions, and its ability to fulfill those ambitions, have grown in the six years since Limbo. Inside expands on the concepts and scope of its predecessor in wildly creative ways, and it's so immaculately designed and constructed from top to bottom that it almost feels suitable for display in an art museum. This is one hell of a followup.

It's important to note up front that the tone and presentation of Inside are just like that of Limbo, which is to say it's preeminently focused on having you puzzle-platform your way through beautifully rendered, increasingly grim scenarios at the expense of everything else. You will pick your way through a wide array of different environments, stitched together seemingly at random and oozing with unsettling imagery. You will solve satisfying puzzles in macabre scenarios; you won't be told a coherent story. You may be scratching your head a little when it's all over. If you roll your eyes at games that can even be loosely described as artsy, you should at least know what you're getting into here. Inside takes itself seriously, but it's way too good at everything it does to ever become bogged down in pretension.
I don't know why there are trees in this room.
I don't know why there are trees in this room.

Inside's building blocks--from its core mechanics and controls to minutiae like the achievement design and chapter select--are right out of the Limbo playbook, though Inside diverges from its predecessor in some important ways. Limbo was mostly built around two concepts: relatively simple, physics-based puzzles and challenges, and killing you over and over (and over). The one thing I remember Limbo doing better than any similar puzzle-platformer at the time was making your interactions with the game world grounded and tactile, giving you a feeling of direct control over whatever box, lever, rope, or giant spider leg you were yanking on at the time. Granted, a lot has changed since 2010, and these days there's no shortage of similar puzzle games with nice physics, so another game that simply recycled Limbo's bona fides obviously wouldn't make the same impact today.

Thankfully Inside more than recaptures that uncanny sense of control; it expands on and integrates it even more seamlessly into the way you run around in and touch the world around you, creating bigger and more elaborate puzzles and obstacles than Limbo ever did. You see loving attention to detail throughout this game, and one of my favorite places where that attention manifests is in the way you interact, or rather that you don't interact, with the many objects you can use in your puzzling. Manipulable (is that a word?) objects tend to melt just into the background and let you run right past them, rather than forcing you to tediously climb back and forth over them, but you can still grab and move them around when you need to, and the character animation that happens around all this is just sublime. It's such a minor point that you might not even notice if you aren't a huge nerd about the little ways game design and presentation are constantly evolving and being refined over time, but it's one of the many subtle, elegant touches that make Inside feel like the product of a lot of intense consideration. It makes the game world, fantastical as it is, feel a little more real.
Oh, the places you'll go.
Oh, the places you'll go.

While the mechanics of your control over the environment are familiar, Inside largely drops Limbo's trial-and-error obstacles and its sadistic urge to kill you constantly, and instead stretches its legs with more involved puzzles that in a lot of cases require you to think a little more abstractly about the environment and your ability to manipulate it. Inside isn't riddled with gotcha-style cheap deaths that require too much repetition; there's something more methodical and a bit more cerebral about making your way through most of this game. When you die, it's typically not because you were killed by a devilishly hidden trap, but more likely because you were poking at the options in front of you to see how you could ply them toward a solution, and just pushed things a bit too far. That makes the puzzles less rote and more satisfying to solve. If all this sounds frustratingly vague, it's only because describing specific scenarios would lessen the "oh wow" revelations of discovering them yourself, and those revelations are at the core of what makes this game so enjoyable. Things get weird, though, and then weirder again. So many elements of this game's scenarios and design feel marvelously, searingly creative.

In light of Limbo's sparse, expressionistic art style, the way Inside's look has evolved and expanded might be the most impressive thing about it. The game's art design and presentation are subtle and cohesive even as your travels take you through disparate areas like farmlands, industrial cityscapes, underwater wreckage, and research facilities, and each of these areas advances some of the sinister images and themes you might expect, and quite a few you won't. There's a repeated emphasis on scenes of cruelty and exploitation in an industrial context that give the game a heavy, oppressive tone, and while you aren't exactly fighting any enemies as such, there are some antagonists and adversarial situations that really made my skin crawl.
Things get weird, fast.
Things get weird, fast.

Moreover, the sheer scale of the world here makes Limbo seem like it might as well have been made from paper cutouts. Where that game took an effective less-is-more approach (which may well have owed to the budgetary constraints of a debut indie game), Playdead has gone the other direction here by lavishing an astonishing amount of depth and detail on every inch of the game. There's so much layered scenery in the fore- and background of any given area that you feel like you could reach all the way into it up to your elbow. It's an appropriately drab game, but there are spare uses of bright lighting that occasionally remind you that the boy is in fact wearing a red shirt. It's a side-scroller so of course you view it from the side, but occasional, slight camera moves and changes in perspective contribute to consistently interesting scene composition and framing. Much like Limbo, the whole thing has a soft focus that makes it easy to forget it's built out of polygons, frequently taking on the character of a piece of moving artwork. I have no compunction about calling Inside a visual masterpiece.

It feels strange to talk so little in specific about a game I'm so impressed by, and I could write a review three times as long citing examples like the first time you put on that... ah, forget it. This is less a nod to overly sensitive spoiler culture and more an acknowledgement of Inside as a work of singular creativity and meticulous design, one of those games where the more it surprises you, the more it'll impress you. I have a hard time coming up with much, other than a conclusion that left me wanting a little more, that this game could do better. It's that question of the gap between ambition and fulfillment, a gap which here is all but nonexistent. Looking at and playing Inside gives the feeling that every surface, every animation, every light and pixel were placed and replaced until they all fit together just right. You see where the six years went. I can't even picture what kind of game Playdead could make another six years from now.


Papers, please.

The nuts and bolts of the latest Deus Ex game probably won't surprise you at this point. It has the things you expect from this kind of action/stealth role-playing hybrid, like skill trees that make you better at hiding from enemies, or abilities that let you speech-check your way through encounters that might otherwise turn violent. It also wraps its story in the familiar trappings of conspiracy, name-dropping "the Illuminati" like that's something you could just say with a straight face in 2016. Or 2029, as the case may be. Deus Ex: Mankind Divided is a sharp, exciting action-adventure game that feels good and tells a decent, if somewhat shallow tale.

Two years have passed since the events of Human Revolution and Adam Jensen isn't 100 percent sure where he's been and what he's done for some part of that time. He's currently splitting time between working with an Interpol-run task force and spying on that task force for a loose crew of hackers called the Juggernaut Collective. Mankind Divided doesn't necessarily require knowledge of the previous game to make sense, but players can optionally view a 12-minute recap that did a great job of reminding me what, exactly, that last game was about. In Mankind Divided, the after-effects of the previous game's "Incident," which caused augmented humans to go bonkers and become crazed murderers for a brief period of time, have led to widespread fear and distrust of augs, which manifests itself throughout the game as good old-fashioned racism. The lines for the trains are split up into "augs" and "naturals." An augmented "terror organization" is blamed for attacks on the general populace without proof. People even have a slur or two used to denote cyborgs. Though some of the game's side missions do a better job of humanizing this conflict, the game maintains a fairly surface-level approach to these heady issues. Considering the way the game's pre-release marketing threw around way more intense and/or misguided phrases like "mechanical apartheid" and "aug lives matter," you might have expected a more thoughtful--or, alternately, a completely careless--approach to a topic that reflects back onto the real world in a couple of different ways.

As it stands, the narrative is fine, if somewhat forgettable. Jensen spends the vast majority of the game in different sections of Prague, which has become a ground zero of sorts for human/aug tension. There are plenty of different factions at play, from the shadowy government-controlling conspiracy at the center of it to an augmented rights organization that swears they're non-violent to Russian mobsters, dirty cops, a hilarious little underground newspaper, and so on. By the end I felt like I had stopped "the bad guys" without getting any more insight into who "the bad guys behind the bad guys" actually are or why any of it matters. The game also doesn't come up with many meaningful combat encounters. On one hand, this solves the boss fight issue some had with the previous game, though I don't know that "remove almost all boss fights" is the most exciting solution. Perhaps that speaks more to my non-lethal, very conversation-focused approach to the action, but by the time I got to the boss fight in Mankind Divided, it felt like I hadn't had enough trigger time to be actually comfortable with the combat controls, making the endgame more of a hassle than a satisfying conclusion. I ended up enjoying more of the side missions than the actual story itself, though the narrative does provide a good setup for why, exactly, you aren't starting out just as powerful as you were at the end of the previous game.
Your new abilities come at a price, but you can always hack your way around those limits, too, if you like...
Your new abilities come at a price, but you can always hack your way around those limits, too, if you like...

Adam Jensen's undergone some additional modifications, resulting in some "experimental" new abilities. These pop up on the skill tree after the game's tutorial, but unlike the rest of the skill tree, which simply unlocks as you spend points, the experimental abilities cause extra strain on Jensen's system. So to use them--at least at first--you'll need to completely disable other parts of the skill tree. This creates a bit of a balancing act between abilities that probably would have been cooler if the experimental abilities themselves were more interesting. I ended up playing most of the game without them, and since the game needs to be balanced to support any playstyle, I never found myself wishing I had the ability to execute an air dash or really needed an augmented, ranged non-lethal takedown. Walking up behind enemies and pressing the takedown button works just as well and doesn't require any ammo. Still, the tree does support a somewhat wider range of playstyles with these abilities, and that's cool. Of course, if you just want to play it like a shooter, you may find the gunplay itself to be a little lacking. You're given plenty of weapons to choose from (including a better-than-average shotgun, which became my go-to weapon when things went bad), but most of them never felt great to use, and the movement never feels snappy enough to make the action feel like a top-tier action game. The shooting is just fine for an action-RPG with a stealth focus, though.

That blend of stealth and shooting is joined by your active and passive augments, which determine the options you might have at any given time. This results in each building seeming to have the same few types of entry points. Did you spec in the direction of the gas-resistant lungs? Maybe the poison-filled passage under the building is the right route. Did you spec up in hacking? Just hack the keypad at the back door. Want to just waltz past the guards? Active camouflage makes you invisible for brief moments, more than enough to get you past any stupid guard. Or hey, maybe you just want to shoot everyone. I primarily played a stealthy style and focused my points into opening up as many of these different options as possible, just in case I needed one over the other. By the end of the game, I felt like I was more or less able to do anything, hack anything, and be everywhere. But that still usually translates into skulking up behind a guard and hitting the takedown button, which awkwardly cuts to black, displays a canned takedown animation, and cuts back to the action. At times the hard cut to the takedown made me feel like I was playing some kind of neoFMV game, which I suppose isn't all bad.

My favorite part of the previous Deus Ex game was the world it built around the game. All the little lived-in parts, screens full of corporate emails, streets full of disenfranchised people with little bits of dialogue to spit your way... it sounds contrived, sure, but all that video gamey stuff really struck a chord with me. Mankind Divided is better at distilling some of this down. There seem to be fewer laptops to hack and emails to read, but the messages you get are usually of a higher quality than what you saw previously. Or, at least, they're good at providing a little flavor. On top of that, they've got a craftable "multi tool" in the game that you can use to hack one normal object automatically, regardless of your skill level. This eliminates that feeling that you're missing out on some meaningful thing, just because you haven't gotten around to building your hacking skills up to level five. That's a smart addition that left me feeling like my one playthrough was plenty, instead of feeling like I missed a bunch of minor stuff and having to decide if I want to go pull apart my old saves and go a different way.
Alex is your primary contact with the hackers at the Juggernaut Collective.
Alex is your primary contact with the hackers at the Juggernaut Collective.

Most of the game is set in Prague, but that's not quite as limiting as it sounds. The city is broken up into multiple districts that you get to via train. So it does have multiple areas and you can more or less travel between them at will. The end result, though, is that you don't see many wildly different locales--there's nothing here that stands out the way Hengsha did in the previous game. Prague is the game, with a few missions along the way that take you to separate areas for awhile. These trips are also used to phase the city, so you'll get a few different looks (and levels of tension in the streets) over the course of the game.

The mechanics of the story translate over to the game's Breach mode, which is a single-player mode set inside a VR-style world. It has its own skill tree and focuses on individual levels, times, and scores. Here, you typically have to run through an environment, collecting data from nodes as you progress. Once you've collected enough data, you escape to win. I got a little bogged down in the in-universe explanations for all this. Like... why would a VR representation of a security system's firewall have VR ventilation ducts for you to escape through?

But the real issue is that when you remove the action from any kind of cohesive narrative, it isn't exciting enough on its own, particularly when presented as a sterile, featureless environment the way cyberspace appears in Breach. It's a dull addition to the game that feels like the developers needed to add a "living" mode to the game, complete with the increasingly standard (and increasingly dismaying) consumable card pack concept. The additional, downloadable "Jensen Stories" are a little more engaging so far, though only one of them was made available during the review phase. This one, called Desperate Measures, covers a bit of ground from the middle of the game and effectively starts you with a mid-game Jensen, with some points to spend on your skill tree, and a specific story to experience. I'm just not sure why this wasn't integrated directly into the game itself, though, since it just feels like yet another side mission in a game rife with side missions.

I'm left with the feeling that a sequel to Human Revolution could've told a more engaging story, but at the same time I had a really great time crouch-walking through Prague. It might not be an especially surprising sequel, but it all comes together quite nicely, with solid side missions and a mix of action and stealth that lets you mess around and find your own way of doing things.


The longest I ever spent on a single planet was the planet @bombsfall (named, as many of my planets were, for someone I follow on Twitter, because I'm just not that creative a person). This was early in my time in the Euclid Galaxy, before I had fully grasped the pace of life in this universe. @bombsfall was, at the time, by far the liveliest planet I'd encountered, filled with useful elements, significant volumes of weird wildlife, and a great number of Vy'keen bases and installations. By this point in my journey, I hadn't stopped to think much about where I was going. I was still enamored with the mere concept of landing on a planet, and trying to plant my flag in as many locations as I could. According to the clock, I was there for 15 sols, which roughly translated to six hours in real world time. At no point did anything on @bombsfall reveal itself to be wildly different from any planet I'd been to up to this point, nor any I've visited since. Apart from its abundance of everything, it was just another planet.

But I stayed here. I mined heridium and plutonium in huge quantities. I scanned every bit of life I could find, every vaguely different-looking rock formation that happened to appear in my field of view. I found galloping horse-looking things with heads and necks like screaming plants, skittering lizards with bug-eyes that seemed at once alarmed and sleepy. I discovered something like 30 different waypoints before I finally decided to move on. There was no good reason to stay as long as I did, but nonetheless I stayed, checking off boxes, giving identity to any question mark that scanned in walkable distance. Fifteen sols of obsessive documentation and resource gathering, all for what? Why did I stay here, and not other, frankly prettier places I eventually found? What kept my boots on this particular ground?

By this point in my journey through No Man's Sky, I hadn't fully grasped the notion of how the game metes out its objectives. I was treating No Man's Sky like a typical open-world game, reluctant to jettison myself from an active planet because I wanted to check off as many objectives as I could before moving on. If you play No Man's Sky like this over the long term, you should get out of your first solar system by Christmas, if you're lucky.

Every planet in No Man's Sky has the same basic things, just in vastly different quantities. A barren moon still has limited mineable resources and locations to visit, but not very many of them. The best planets are teeming with native flora and fauna, along with numerous bases and monoliths established by the game's other intelligent races, the warrior Vy'keen, the trade-focused Gek, and the Daft Punk-looking machine race called the Korvax Convergence. The variety of what you find in these bases is not very wide. Sometimes you'll find an observatory that will point you toward an ancient ruin or distress call from a wrecked ship. Sometimes it was an abandoned station that had been overtaken by betentacled alien unpleasantness, in which I would usually find some new tech to attach to my multitool or exosuit. Sometimes I'd find a trading depot manned by a solitary member of one of the previously mentioned races.


In a normal open-world game, the repetition of these familiar icons on a map would be lessened, because you're aiming toward a set endpoint. They only have to be copied and pasted a few times throughout the game because they exist alongside larger story missions that are the primary focus for the player. These are distractions from the point, not the point unto themselves. In No Man's Sky, everything outside of the game's single story thread is a side objective, copied and pasted hundreds of quintillions of times across the universe. No matter how long you spend in No Man's Sky, you will never see them all, but not long after you begin No Man's Sky, you will have seen them all before.

That repetition will likely be critically damaging to a lot of people's enjoyment, especially given how threadbare the core survival game mechanics are. Resources are mined, systems are recharged and repaired, money is gained, and so on. In between, you manage and build out your inventory so you can store more of everything. Crashed ships (or ones purchased from other aliens) give you more cargo space than the beater you begin the game with, but they're expensive, so you keep grinding. Exosuit upgrades are found on every space station, and frequently scattered across planets and moons, but they increase in cost with each purchase, so you keep grinding. This process repeats itself forever. As the game exists at the time of this writing, there is nothing to do but look for new versions of the same things, take whatever's useful for you, and move onto the next planet, all in the hopes of creating a bigger bag in which to store whatever.

Once you start earning upgrades for your equipment, tasks like mining start feeling less like a tedious chore. There's no worse modern game design convention than "this task sucks until you upgrade to make it suck less," and that's a convention No Man's Sky is oddly invested in, sadly.

But there are appealing aspects too. Scanning environments on a newly discovered planet doesn't get old, or at least it hasn't yet for me. Yes, you'll see the same assets recombined in various ways as you play, but even apart from the financial benefits--you earn additional money by uploading your discoveries to a galactic database--it's a wonderful sensation to know you're the first person to see this particular thing, whatever that thing happens to be. And even though engaging with the wildlife on any given planet rarely amounts to much--feeding the more docile creatures sometimes nets you additional resources they scout for you, or occasionally excrete for you--I still like doing it. I like befriending these Frankensteined animals, no matter how grievously repellant they might be. By no means will this grind work for every player; I often wondered not if, but when it would ever stop working for me. But for the subset of players who, like me, succumb to No Man's Sky's perpetual thrum of galactic busywork, it does the job.


The closest I ever came to actual death in No Man's Sky was on the planet @MOUNTENNUI. A mountainous planet with minimal wildlife, @MOUNTENNUI was a rock I almost bolted from moments after touching down. It was only because I noticed an unfamiliar object near my landing point that I stayed. Vortex Cubes. I'd never seen these on a planet before. As far as I knew, they only existed as rare, valuable items you could buy on the open trading market. Here they were, not in great quantities, but enough that it was worth my while to snag a few. The one thing I hadn't counted on was the sentinels.

The sentinels on this planet were aggressive. Any attempt to take resources would result in a couple of them coming at me guns blazing. They were especially protective of these rare cubes, which sat on pedestals like ancient idols, begging to be stolen, if only so that a giant boulder could finally be unleashed upon the thief. Stealing the cubes alerted the sentinels to my presence. At this point, my multitool was pretty strong, so I could take out the first wave without much hassle. Even the second alert tier, the dog-looking machines with hyperaccurate laser fire, usually died after a single grenade launch. Here though, I first encountered the next tier, a giant AT-ST-looking monster that seemed dead set on wiping me from this universe entirely. The second he showed up, my shields were blasted away in seconds. I bolted for my ship, jumped in the cockpit with barely any health left, and flew to the stars, thinking I'd escaped. Suddenly, alarms sounded. Sentinel ships were coming out of hyperspace. I fought a few off, but they just kept coming. I figured I was doomed.

Then I turned my ship toward the nearest space station, hit the pulse drive, and got away. They didn't chase me. I was fine.


The worst parts of No Man's Sky are the ones that most closely hew to the idea of what a traditional video game is supposed to have. Take the aforementioned sentinels. These robotic creatures exist on every world. Though they vary in temperament, the idea is that they police the universe. Huge chunks of the other races' history is wrapped up in fighting them or researching their omnipresent existence. Why they're here isn't an interesting mystery, especially since they only seem to exist to give players something to fight. Even the most aggressive wildlife isn't much of a challenge, so here are some robots that get larger and nastier depending on how much chaos you cause. Here are your antagonists, because video games are supposed to have those.

Fighting them is always a nuisance, but never tense or fun. They're not strong or smart enough to put up a meaningful fight once you've implemented enough weapon upgrades. They're just there to start shit because nothing else in the game, save for the occasional space pirate you encounter off-planet, does. Engaging them (and the pirates) in space is no better. Ship combat goes from frustrating to depressingly simple as soon as you acquire your first beam weapon. Instead of having to carefully lead targets with your shot (and mostly miss in the process), you just blast a few phaser beams out and the autotargeting does the rest of the work. Video games are theoretically supposed to make fighting the antagonists they present you with an enjoyable experience, something No Man's Sky never finds a way to pull off.

The same can be said for the game's attempts at story. Finding monoliths and knowledge stones offers up some interesting backstory for the histories of the different races you encounter, as well as individual word translations for the various alien languages, but the actual story direction for the player, which involves following a path laid out for you by an ancient force called Atlas, is just an absolute waste. The notion here is that players might want something to guide them early in the game. Given the scope of the universe, having something to latch onto besides a vague longing toward getting to the center of the galaxy makes sense. But what's on offer isn't much of a story at all. It's a series of stations to visit that spoon feed you a bit of philosophical baby food before offering you a special orb and sending you back on your way. If you collect ten of those orbs, your final station visit will give you the option to create a new star, which is presented with as little fanfare as you could imagine.

The good news is that you don't have to follow this path. You have the option at the very beginning of the game to go that route, or just freely explore. You should freely explore, because for all the things that No Man's Sky misses the mark on, that freedom of exploration is the one thing it gets very, very right.


I never felt more alone than I did on the planet @UtilityLimb. At this stage of my journey, I'd never been to a harsher place. Impossibly massive cliffs jutted up all around, offering sheer drops into small pools of putridly hot water. Huge storms that almost completely killed visibility beyond a few feet in front of me rolled in regularly, kicking up purple dust clouds that made the environment look like an early Nintendo 64 game. The only life I ever found were a few out-of-place-looking cow creatures, and a small number of pulsating shrimp things that swam around those tiny pools of water. Of the precious few stations I found, all were empty of life. No one existed on this bizarre, horrible place.

And I have never had more fun in No Man's Sky than I did on this garbage planet. Due to some pre-day-one-patch glitch, my ship's engines had broken. I needed to farm a fair amount of iron in order to make the necessary repairs, and while iron was certainly around, it was gonna take a while to get it. Knowing that I would end up wiping my save when the patch dropped, I decided this is where I was going to make my stand. I was going to die on this rock, but before then, I wanted to find someone else alive. I had to know if I was truly, utterly alone.

I spent a long time wandering @UtilityLimb's hostile terrain. Maybe every 10 minutes or so, I'd find another question mark, but it never materialized into an interaction. Just monoliths and abandoned facilities, with knowledge stones dotting the path between them. I learned the Gek words for "origin," "fluid," and "kneel" but I never found another sapient presence.


After a couple of hours, I allowed myself one last question mark. I hoofed it in the icon's direction, but it took forever. The cliffs were unforgiving, and my jetpack hadn't been suitably upgraded by this point. You could see where the procedural generation had borked up in places, as giant, yet unusually slender outcroppings of rock, which looked like the result of anything but nature, appeared sometimes completely free of gravity, floating peculiarly above the world. Storms kept hitting, but finally, as the last one broke, I saw the outline of my final destination. It was another monolith.

I interacted with it, and it told me that amid its pulsing energies, a small birdlike creature had appeared. It looked dead, with its neck clearly broken. The monolith had reanimated it for my benefit, as some kind of test. It screamed in agony. The monolith gave me a choice: Let it be, or put it out of its misery. I thought for a second, and chose to kill it. Mercy seemed altogether absent on this world, so I felt it my duty to inject a little into it. I was rewarded with a new upgrade for my exosuit.

As I turned away, the computer sounded the alert of yet another incoming storm. As purple dust clouds filled the space, I poked the last few knowledge stones that surrounded me. I learned the Gek words for "fire," "stop," and "awake." Those were the last words that went through my head as I, and my original save, died.

No Man's Sky does an incredible job of making you feel insignificant. Maybe this sounds like a weird thing to compliment a game for. After all, games are often obsessed with making you feel like the most significant person in their individual worlds. No Man's Sky is the opposite of a power fantasy. You're just a person scraping by, taking what you need, selling the rest, and working to survive in a universe that's thoroughly uninvested in your survival.


It's lonely as hell, and I think that's wonderful. I mean, thinking about space and its distressing infiniteness tends to have that effect on people, but this feels different from what other space games tend to offer. This isn't grand space opera; you're not building a galactic empire. You're in this universe all by yourself. You know full well that you will never see the whole of it. The only way to leave any kind of mark is through discovery. Putting your stamp on the star systems, planets, individual waypoints, and even names of various species you encounter, is the closest anyone will ever get to knowing where your journey took you. It's the galactic equivalent of carving "Brooks Was Here" into the ceiling of a boarding house.

And it's kind of a beautiful, even humbling thing. This is what ultimately kept me going in No Man's Sky. When I'd finished the Atlas path, I almost called it quits in disgust. But when I eventually convinced myself to go back, I decided to return to the pace of play I'd been holding to before I decided to rush through the last few Atlas stations. I made it a point to go to every planet in a star system, and even if I opted not to stay long, maintaining that need to explore brought me back to how I felt when I first began the game. The sense of wonder returned as I continued my solitary journey through space. Knowing that I was totally on my own, and that there was nothing left to guide me, reminded me why I was ever enjoying the game in the first place.

I don't expect that sense of wonder will hold for everyone. There's a good chance that your immersion in No Man's Sky will be broken far sooner than mine. You may find yourself deeply bored of the game's loop once you've seen all the varieties of animal and plant and rock that the game recycles across its universe. You may tire of the frequent bugs and crashes that, while sure to be patched down the road, nonetheless distract quite a bit from the current version of the game. Maybe you've already decided not to jump into No Man's Sky at all because, in numerous ways, it's never quite manages to live up to its original promise, imagined or otherwise.

And yet, there's something underneath all those blemishes, something intangible beyond its rickety framework and lackluster individual pieces, that I couldn't ignore. The thing is, almost entirely in spite of what No Man's Sky is, I really like playing it. It calms me in a way that few games ever manage to. Knowing that I'll never see the entirety of it, knowing that my path through this overwhelmingly massive, deeply flawed universe will be uniquely my own, is enough to keep me on that path. I like being here, lonesome in my insignificant corner of the galaxy, doing the things I need to do to survive.


This is the vision of the game I hope Hello Games leans into as they work to improve No Man's Sky. Yes, deeper systems, better draw distance, better frame rate, greater variety of, well, everything, all of this is important. Maybe that theoretical possibility of interaction between players should actually make its way into the game, too. But I don't want any of that to come at the expense of that magnificent solitude that No Man's Sky already does so well. That's why I remain here, wrestling with all the ways in which this game's universe is fundamentally broken.

Because this broken universe gives me a small taste of something that our own broken universe can't. I will never leave Earth. I will almost assuredly never go to a place no one has ever been, because nearly every place on Earth has already been discovered. Though the promise of interstellar travel, or at least travel to other places in our little solar system, has never seemed more tantalizingly close, I know that I will never be one of those people to set foot on those unfamiliar places. That opportunity has passed me and a great deal of my generation by. If and when space travel becomes a normal aspect of human life, I'll be an old man, if I'm even alive at all.

No Man's Sky makes me feel like I can go somewhere no one else has ever been, and no one else may ever be again. And I love it for that. Maybe you will too.

No Man's Sky feels like it's been in the public consciousness for an eternity. In reality, it's closer to two-and-a-half years. All that build-up, all those weighty expectations, all of it began a little over half a US Presidential term ago at, of all places, the 2013 VGX Awards. Remember that show? If you do, it's probably because of what a disaster it was. But somewhere in there, tucked amid Joel McHale's active disdain for his hosting role and a bunch of ill-fitting Odd Future interview segments, maybe you remember Sean Murray of Hello Games unveiling his studio's latest creation, an impossibly huge-sounding space exploration game called No Man's Sky. Maybe you remember him nervously shifting as Geoff Keighley grilled him on the details of the game, looking down at his shoes as he described his vision of the ultimate "You see that mountain? You can go there" game, a procedurally generated universe of over 18 quintillion planets, all explorable from pole to pole. Maybe you remember even McHale himself, so detached and sarcastic throughout the show, letting out a brief eruption of genuine-feeling incredulity at the scope of what Murray's small team was trying to accomplish.


That incredulity has built steadily in parallel to a ludicrous amount of hype in the years since. For every person pinning their dreams of "endless gameplay" in "the last game they'll ever play," there was another demanding to know "what you do" in the game, and casting doubts as to whether Hello Games could ever pull off what it was purporting to do. Normally as a critic I wouldn't care to mention the hype cycle any big game inevitably goes through, but that cycle is inextricably linked to No Man's Sky. So much of what has been wished upon it has informed the discourse around it. Though Hello Games' own messaging has been at best, muddled, and at worst, ultimately misleading--especially around the possibility of players finding each other in this huge universe--that messaging has also been largely drowned out by people projecting their own hopes and fears onto the game.

It's as difficult to imagine a game that met the loftiest of those expectations as it is easy to understand why people would be disappointed with the game that No Man's Sky ultimately turned out to be. At its core, No Man's Sky is a game of exploration. You jump from star system to star system in your own little ship, landing on planets and moons and leaving your personal stamp on them as you go. The constant feeling of discovery is its greatest asset, but that discovery often feels in service of far less interesting ends. Both its fleeting attempts at narrative, and economically-driven gameplay systems, are fairly terrible at respecting the player's time. And yet they're seemingly what are meant to propel the player forward in No Man's Sky. Resource gathering, crafting, inventory management, robot fighting, ship combat, it's all in there, wrapped in a veneer of Greater Purpose that points you toward the center of the galaxy, a place you are meant to go because the developers felt the game needed a place everyone is supposed to go. But taken individually, none of these things are particularly compelling. They're all skeletons of systems that basically work together, but not completely. Even the procedural generation, the heart of this whole crazy endeavor, starts showing its seams long before you even start thinking about those hypothetical "hundreds of hours" of gameplay.

And yet. And yet.

Calling something "greater than the sum of its parts" is beyond cliche, but no other description feels more apt for No Man's Sky. There's a rhythm to playing it that's unusually transfixing. Even as I came to realize the limitations of every single thing the game does, the sense of wonder never quite left me. Thirty-five hours in, I still found great joy in setting foot on a new planet for the first time, looking around, and drinking in whatever environment surrounded me. It's hard to explain why that feeling is still here, even after I've discovered every flaw in the game's design, every crack in its facade. There are so many different ways that No Man's Sky fails to deliver that I should be disappointed. I should be done with this game. And yet. And yet.

Gliding is a fun way to get around, but it makes the climbing feel trivial.

I didn't want to live in a world where the sequel to Grow Home was the slightest bit disappointing, but even goofy little climbing robots can't always get what they want. Grow Up is built around the same tactile hand-over-hand climbing mechanic that made Grow Home one of 2015's best little games, and this sequel makes a valiant attempt to blow out Grow Home's bite-size experience with a big old world map and more things to do. It's still satisfying to claw your way up a giant beanstalk and collect every last crystal in sight, but some new mechanics that don't play to the game's strengths and disappointing performance on console make Grow Up harder to love than it should be.

Grow Up at least nails its setting by expanding the first game's small floating-island motif into a full planetoid, complete with multiple biomes, an asteroid belt, and a ton of caves to spelunk. Everyone's favorite inebriated, stumbly robot B.U.D. finds himself stranded there after his wisecracking spaceship M.O.M. crashes and distributes her debris all over the place for you to go collect. The simple, flat-polygon look of the first game is even more effective here, as it's used to render a wider variety of places like a desert, a polar glacier, and a glowing giant-mushroom forest in expressive strokes. The game also makes great use of its day/night system by having the planetoid actually rotate, so the day and night phases actually move around the planet. In other words, not only will you experience dawn and dusk if you hang out in one place long enough, but once you get some of the late-game mobility upgrades, you can also fly around the planet (which takes like two minutes tops) and literally chase the sunset. With the final aerial upgrades, you can even orbit the planet, sailing peacefully through space as the world turns below you. It's a gorgeous game to explore and float around in, and it does a fantastic job of establishing mood.
The landscape and time of day do a great job of creating atmosphere.
The landscape and time of day do a great job of creating atmosphere.

If you played Grow Home, you know exactly what the core gameplay is here: each shoulder button controls a hand, letting you grip any surface and climb up it in a loose, dynamic way that feels oddly liberating. Initially you'll get around the world purely by climbing--which worked well in a very small space like that of Grow Home--but the game world is so much bigger this time around that at first it feels a little cumbersome to cover any real distance quickly. Grow Up's solution is to start dishing out jetpack upgrades faster than its predecessor, and it also quickly gives you a glider so you can capitalize on all the falling you'll inevitably be doing as you tumble off of one sky island or another. Gliding is in itself a fun way to get around (although it's infuriating that the game reverses the glider controls depending on which way the camera is facing), but by the time you get the upgrade that lets you combine the jetpack and glider for some straight-up powered flight, it's easy to forget you could ever climb in the first place. The flight options, useful as they are, seem like a strange circumvention of what made the first game interesting.

This sequel also gives B.U.D. the ability to fill out a plant index by finding and scanning two dozen different plant forms as you run into them. Once you scan a plant, you can then grow it anywhere you want by tossing its seed on the ground. This idea is pretty neat in concept, and it lets you do some ridiculous stuff like building a mile-high tower of bouncy mushrooms, but in practice all two dozen of the available plants serve the same purpose--elevate you into the air quickly--so you'll generally find the one you like and just stick with that. Or not, because the level design usually places the relevant plants right where you need them anyway, and again, you'll quickly get the flight upgrades that make all your other methods of gaining height redundant. The plant mechanics are a neat idea that don't really, uh, blossom in the way they deserve. There's also a new ability to roll B.U.D. up into a ball, morph ball-style, but I never found even one situation where that ability seemed especially useful.
Yo you wanna grab this B.U.D. and get hiiiiiiigh?
Yo you wanna grab this B.U.D. and get hiiiiiiigh?

Most of what you're doing to progress in Grow Up, you already did in Grow Home. Instead of one starplant to grow up into the sky and reach the highest islands, you now grow three; the hundred crystals you collected in the first game are followed up here with half again as many. That stuff is still fun to engage with on a basic level, so that familiar repetition isn't totally damning, but when you consider that Grow Up's new content consists primarily of timed race challenges (the bottom-tier fodder of open-world side content), the whole package feels a little thin. Don't even try to tackle those challenges early in the game, before you have a better jetpack and glider; that's a recipe for extreme frustration. Later on, with all your flight upgrades, finishing them becomes utterly trivial. At that point, the hardest thing about the timed challenges is finding them all. The game has a world map that does helpfully mark items of interest automatically, but once you've finished most of the activities, the map doesn't give you any way to pinpoint the few items you have left. I spent a maddening two extra hours scouring the world for the last two challenges I'd missed before finally discovering them hiding in places where the map didn't make them particularly visible.

Still, Grow Up does enough right that I stuck out its quirks and did 100 percent of everything there was to do, and all of this is quite a bit easier to forgive when you consider that Grow Up costs a measly 10 bucks. The console game has some disappointing performance issues--the PS4 version runs drastically worse than the first game did on the same platform--but on even a modest PC it looks and runs great. There, it's worth paying the low asking price (and overlooking a few flaws) just to drift placidly through the heavens, surveying the lush polygonal landscape below.


ReCore is one of the most frustrating games I've played in a long time, and not because it's overly difficult. Here's this charming marriage of Japanese and Western design philosophies--mixing fast-paced platforming and cutesy robots with pretty deep RPG-style crafting and customization, respectively--tied together with a story about saving the human race that initially rises above your typical video game clich. ReCore offers a lighthearted, fun first few hours, but all that promise is quickly buried in a torrent of bugs and oversights, poor storytelling, and disjointed pacing that all make the game a pale shadow of what it could have been.
Roaming around looking for cores is pretty fun for the first few hours...

Joule is one of a handful of maintenance workers on a desert world called Far Eden, cryosleeping away the decades while an army of "corebots" terraforms the planet into a lush garden world suitable for the remnants of a plague-riddled humanity to settle on. The rest of the people are also in stasis aboard ships in orbit, as far as Joule knows, but she wakes up way past the terraforming deadline to find Far Eden is still an arid waste and most of the corebots have been up to no good. Joule and her trio of friendly robotic helpers set out to try to get the planet-building gear back up and running, and figure out what's going on with all those bad bots. Joule's robot buddies are endearing as all heck, and even with no discernible dialog they show a ton of personality just through their body language. But there aren't really any other meaningful players in the story, nor any significant story development at all. Along the way there are a couple of intriguing revelations about the terraforming effort and the state of affairs back on Earth, and the idea of robots rebelling against their creators and dooming humanity's last hope in the process is interesting on its face, but the game so profoundly fails to reach a satisfying conclusion about any of this that, having finished ReCore, looking back on the game's initial premise just makes me feel sad.

But let's focus on the good, first. The action at least comes together more fully than the story, and it's built out of some great parts. With a hard lock-on that takes care of all your targeting, this isn't a third-person shooter in the traditional sense; instead, the combat is all about evading the enemies' widely varied attacks via a double jump and air dash while you flip between targets. Those enemies come in red, blue, and yellow variants, each with their own types of attacks, and you'll need to vary the color of your own damage output accordingly to take them down quickly. You'll also have two of your three robotic buddies--Mack the dog, Seth the spider, and Duncan the ape--with you at any time, and these guys also have color-coding and unique attacks that you'll have to manage on the fly in the middle of hectic firefights. Whittling enemies down allows you to extract their AI "core," which you can use to buff your buddies' stats, or you can opt to just destroy your foes outright to gain other crafting materials, depending on what you need at the moment. The combat has enough different things going on fast enough that it requires a lot of fun, quick decision-making and rarely wears out its welcome.
...but you'll need an awful lot of them to get into places like this.

There's a nice layer of RPG-style progression on top of the combat that keeps you upgrading pretty steadily. Joule and her robot buddies gain experience and level up as you fight, and you'll collect dozens of blueprints that let you craft new gear for each friendly robot that buffs their stats and gives them new bonuses and a new look. Later on, you can even swap the robots' AI cores between the three existing frames (and a fourth flying one you find later on), all of which unlocks new special attacks and lets you micromanage stats and abilities to a satisfying degree. The combat never becomes too terribly difficult outside of a handful of unfortunate difficulty spikes in the second half of the game, but it's still a lot of fun to maximize your combat options and damage output and try to collect more and better blueprints.

ReCore's structure is a bit like a 3D Zelda game, in that you have a series of overworld maps with a few things to do here and there, and a variety of story and side dungeons you load into where the heavier combat and puzzle-solving take place. At first this seems like a nice way to mix up what you're doing: finish a story dungeon to advance the plot, roam around and collect some stuff for a bit, pop into a side dungeon (which come in puzzle, platforming, and arena-combat flavors), then repeat. Your access to all of this stuff is gated by the number of prismatic cores--an item sort of analogous to Mario 64's stars--you've managed to collect via story and overworld means, and you can see on the map how many cores and which robot buddies you need to enter a given dungeon, along with the recommended character level.

All of the gameplay design elements in ReCore collectively have the makings of an excellent little character-driven action game like there haven't been enough of in recent years. The combat is fast and varied, the platforming is demanding and cleverly designed, and the progression has more than enough of that carrot-on-a-stick potential to make you want to keep upgrading. But the longer the game goes on, the more bugs large and small start to grate on your nerves, and the more disjointed and downright weird the pacing of the story becomes. I eventually lost track of the number of technical issues I ran into playing through this game; it's simply one of the buggiest games to come out of a major publisher, much less a platform-holder, in recent memory.
Another picture of a robot dog!

Some parts of the game world have no collision, so you'll fall right through them. Other parts, presumably where the designers didn't want you to go but which look completely innocent, kill you with invisible "radiation" in seconds. The fast travel system broke on me at least half a dozen times, forcing me to restart the game entirely. I had dialogue from earlier missions trigger again in later missions hours after I'd heard it the first time. Similarly, while fighting my way through the game's last dungeon, my mission objective reverted to one from the very beginning of the game. Every aspect of the game I can think of--animation, sound, menus, mission logic and scripting, interactions with the environment--had things break or go sideways at one point or another. One of the late-game dungeons has a high likelihood of dumping you into an infinite-respawn loop if you so much as die in it once. I say the likelihood is high because I got it to happen four separate times across the Xbox One and PC versions of the game. It's enough to make you question how a game even goes out the door like this.

The short length and awful pacing of the game are arguably worse than the bugs, if that's possible. The story unfolds at a natural clip for the first six hours or so, but right around the time you feel like the end of act one has arrived and you're about to see the story open up and learn about the antagonist's motivations, you realize you're actually more or less at the end of the game. The villain spends a grand total of about two minutes onscreen and is referenced by Joule even less before you find yourself slamming headfirst into ReCore's tedious grind of an endgame. Where's the second and most of the third acts here? Past the first four or five hours, the dramatic arc just dissolves and it feels like you're being hurried along to the perfunctory final encounter... except you can't just go finish the game, because the final dungeon drops a sequence of increasingly onerous prismatic core requirements on you as you try to work your way through it. You won't have anywhere close to enough cores to advance through that final dungeon when you get there, and every floor adds another five to the tally, so you'll repeatedly have to go back out into the world and scour the remaining side content for more of the damn things.

And then, again, there's the lack of story, and the feeling that huge chunks of it are just missing, as the game grinds on. By the time you get to that final dungeon, something like a fifth of the game's total landmass will remain completely untouched; it's purely there for you to go poke around in, looking for cores, at the end. A couple of the cutscenes are so shoddily put together, with disjointed scene transitions and rushed exposition and some really ugly FMV, that I found myself confused as to what had just happened after they were over. Almost all of the actually interesting storytelling is relegated to audio logs and text notes, which actually give you some background on the architects of the terraforming project and what may have gone wrong. But those plot elements feel like they were written to serve a much grander storyline that just isn't here at all. Once you finally reach the final boss fight (which is just a retread of a fight you fought hours earlier), you're treated to one of the most slapped-together jokes of an ending I've ever seen in a game. After one briefly heartfelt dialogue sequence that doesn't actually address any of the open questions of the plot, you get a couple of what feel like placeholder cutscenes that were shoved into the ending, and then you're wordlessly dumped back to the title screen without even a credits roll. I won't pretend to know what did or didn't happen in the course of this game's development, but between the bugs and the lack of storytelling, it's hard not to feel like this thing needed quite a bit more time in the oven.
Poor Joule deserved better.

Setting aside the quality of the game, ReCore at least serves as an encouraging start for Microsoft's "Play Anywhere" initiative that will get you access to both Xbox One and Windows 10 versions of all first-party games from now on. In contrast to the much-maligned Games for Windows Live, it was a cinch to download ReCore and launch it from the Start menu, no extra login or overlay nonsense required. The game ran beautifully on PC, detected my Xbox One controller, unlocked the same achievements (although I never got any notifications for them), automatically switched to headphones when I plugged them into the controller's headphone jack; it pretty much delivered the seamless convenience of a console once I was in-game. The game's incredibly long loading times and shoddy frame rate on Xbox One make the PC version your best bet if you have a decent system, actually. It's too bad Microsoft couldn't manage to launch this effort with a more complete game than ReCore, although this positive first experience bodes exceedingly well for Forza Horizon 3 and Gears of War 4 in a few weeks.

It would be so much easier to dismiss ReCore if it were just a bad game in every respect, but the sad reality is that taken individually, every one of the game's design elements shows thoughtfulness and craft. The combat, platforming, crafting and customization, even the parts of the story that work were clearly built with care and seem like they'll amount to a really engaging game with a lovable cast of characters and an intriguing world, but the game's rampant problems are just impossible to look past. This game deserved to be so much more.

You'd think I would've taken my own advice after reviewing Forza Horizon 2. Just like that game, Forza Horizon 3 is an open-world game that is better if you take it in at a varied pace. It's tempting to just blaze through as many of the different races and options as quickly as possible so you can level up, earn credits to buy cars, and earn fans to unlock more events. And I played that way for the first five or six hours. But trying to plough through a Horizon game is a bad way to go. The events get repetitive. The open world that separates the events becomes a hassle to traverse because you're just trying to get on with it already. Even the car painting and design aspects fall to the backseat if you're just trying to build yourself up as quickly as possible. But if you lean back a little bit and just kind of see where the road takes you, Forza Horizon 3 might be the most enjoyable game to bear the Forza name thus far.

Most of the features and options from Horizon 2 map right onto the new game, but the biggest departure is the world itself. Horizon 3 is set in Australia, and it's a much better place to drive than the European locale of the previous game. It's got great variety, from beachfronts to rainforests, deserts to downtown. It's got a solid mix of paved roads, dirt, and fields full of stuff for you to jump over and smash through. The game also looks great, with nice weather effects and lighting that helps tie the whole thing together into a pleasant package.

The catch is that a lot of the race events get pretty repetitive. Each one initially opens up with exhibition races as the main event, and a rivals mode that lets you race the same course in a time attack mode. Eventually the track opens up for championships, which mostly just lets you race the same course again with the same kinds of car and class options, but you have to bundle it up with other courses to build a multi-race championship. I found that to be overly redundant.


Racing is one of the fastest ways to turn the crank on the game's different methods of progression, though, since you'll earn credits that you'll need for new cars and upgrades, experience points that raise your level to get you more credits and cars, and fans, which unlock additional events. Showcase events, the ridiculous races against non-cars that have been a staple of the series all along, are back. Racing against a set of speedboats or trying to beat a train is a cool idea, but in practice these showcase events feel like time trials with enough rubber-banding in them to make every race seem close... but in reality they feel difficult to fail if you're showing any skill at all out there. As a result, they come off as a neat idea with no teeth that's only gotten older and less exciting as the franchise moves on.

The other earnable points you'll need are skill points, which turn into perk points when you fill the skill meter, which in turn are used to unlock frivolous things like additional horn sounds, nice bonuses like making your vote count for double in the game's online mode, and necessary features that shouldn't be locked away at all, like the ability to fast travel around the world. There are so many different "skills" to perform in the game that you more or less get a skill combo going by doing... anything. Driving fast? That's a skill. Smashing through a fence? Skilllllllssssss. Catching any air at all? You'd better believe that's a skill. This means that the fastest way to earn skill points is to just drift in circles through a field that has a hill and a lot of bushes in it, giving you things the smash through and a hill for catching some air. I'd be a little more up in arms about the skill-less skill system if it wasn't so much fun to drift in circles in a field that has a hill and a lot of bushes in it. If you manage to crash your car into a thick, invulnerable tree or ram another car, your skill combo breaks and the points you've been building up are lost.

The game also has a set of online modes that you can start seeking out whenever you like. Online Adventure lets a large group of players get together and take on events. Some can be races, others are more playful and less focused on just getting to the finish line as quickly as possible. Online freeroam... you know, it lets you drive around the world with other players and do... stuff? Co-op campaign lets a smaller group get together and knock out the game's events in team races. If I sound a little vague on the actual features found in the game's online mode, that's because I had continuous problems getting connected to other games. Frequently, the matchmaking process would just run for 20 minutes or more without actually finding anything, and the games I did get into didn't run especially well, making player cars skip across the track with lag while the AI cars don't quite move right, either.


On that note, it's worth mentioning that the PC version of Forza Horizon 3 has the potential to look great, but the recommended and "ideal" specs are pretty stiff. Even in a situation where you meet those requirements, getting the game to run at a stable 60 frames-per-second seems like it can be a tall order. If anything, the game seems like it was built to be locked at 30fps. On the Xbox One, where the game is more or less locked at 30, you're given a terrific sense of speed in the faster cars. But the game looks great at higher frame rates, provided you've built a PC powerful enough to actually handle that.

It's a fantastic-looking game that takes some of the best simulation-style driving to be found on a console and plops it into a great open world. Parts of it could be less repetitive and the PC version seems like it probably needs a patch or two to help smooth things out a bit, but those end up being minor complaints peppered into an otherwise delightful experience. Just do yourself a favor and try to cruise around from time to time instead of just banging through one event after another.

Rather than have two concurrent Mario RPG series, Nintendo has kept most of that genres trappings confined to the Mario & Luigi series for over a decade. Paper Mario may have taken the torch from Super Mario RPG with its first two entries, but later titles strayed further and further from the formula. Super Paper Mario was a platformer for all intents and purposes, and Sticker Star took a different approach altogether. The 3DS title eliminated XP and leveling, severely handicapping any sense of progression. In addition, combat was regulated by a finite collection of stickers that Mario would collect in the world. As polarizing as Sticker Star was for fans of the series, Paper Mario: Color Splash doubles down on its most frustrating elements and makes them even worse.
Some stages make novel use of the craftwork aesthetic.

What makes Color Splash such a tremendous disappointment is the fact that so much of it is great. Throughout the games lengthy story, it consistently made me laugh with its clever writing and numerous nods to Mario history. Prism Island plays host to a wide variety of locations and activities, and I was always curious what the game would be having me do next. Restoring color to the world is Marios goal, and doing so tasks him with appearing on a game show, assembling a train, organizing a tea party at a haunted hotel, and a ton more. It even manages to sneak in some great parodies and references that rarely seem forced.

Just about everything in Color Splash is instantly likable except for the thing that you spend the most time doing. Each time I encountered an enemy, it felt like a punch to the gut. Id often be walking around, admiring the games gorgeous visuals and wondering what it would be having me do next. Then, Id encounter an area filled with enemies and Id be reminded of how thoroughly Nintendo dropped the ball with this game.

Numerous things are terrible about the combat system, and any one of them is bad enough to bring down the quality of the game as a whole. Together, they have the ability to make the experience miserable at times.

Like Sticker Star, combat is regulated by single-use cards that Mario can buy or find in the environment. Since there isnt any kind of infinite base level attack that can be pulled out at any point, I was frequently required to waste powerful cards on enemies that were already near death. This system can back you into a corner. If youve run out of hammers and all you have are a bunch of jump cards, good luck trying to take out that Shy Guy with a spiked helmet on his head.

Oftentimes, powerful cards will just be taken from you without warning. At random points, Kamek will fly by at the beginning of standard battles and turn all of your cards over. Youre forced to blindly choose cards to play, meaning that you could easily waste one of your most powerful attacks on a weak enemy. Some fights even feature enemies that hop onto the playing field and eat your cards before you have a chance to use them.
Go into the settings menu ASAP to remove this screen.

This is especially infuriating if its a Thing card. These are special cards that transform the battlefield into a photorealistic environment, and often do massive damage to your enemies. More often than not, these rare items are required to finish off a boss or advance the story. If you lose it in one of several random ways, youre forced to exit the area youre in and head back to the main hub world to buy another.

As boneheaded as the entirety of the combat system is, its made even worse thanks to the method in which you attack. Its insane that GamePad functionality has been so clumsily incorporated this late in the Wii Us lifecycle. Each time you want to attack, you have to scroll through a giant deck of cards on the GamePad screen with the stylus. You then slide the cards that you want to use up to the top of the screen. Once your cards are in place, you confirm that they are the cards that you wish to attack with. The GamePad takes you to another screen that has you tap and hold on each individual card to determine how much paint you want to put into them (paint increases attack damage). When your paint levels are where you want them to be, you hit confirm again. At the next screen, you flick the cards up with the stylus to actually attack. This song and dance happens every single time that its your turn during combat. There is an option in the settings menu that allows you to eliminate one of the confirm screens, but the process remains painfully slow.
Be prepared to see a lot of this screen.

This is all the more maddening when you realize how fruitless combat is to begin with. Sticker Stars dumbed-down progression system is even more severely neutered in Color Splash. Mario can expand his paint reserves by collecting hammers after fights, and his HP goes up by 25 at six predetermined points in the story. Outside of a few upgrades that increase the number of cards that Mario can play in one turn, there is nothing else that you can do to feel more powerful.

Lets break this down. You fight by playing single-use cards. If you win, youre rewarded with coins. You use coins to...buy more cards. With that system in place, why would anyone ever want to encounter an enemy in the field? I never once felt like any of the standard fights were doing anything to progress the story or my characters abilities. Its maddening. I got to a point in which I started trying to flee from every fight. This works on occasion, but its terrible when Mario falls flat on his face while attempting to flee and youre forced to go through another awful round of card-based combat.

There are other unfortunate elements in play that arent tied to the combat. Several stages require you to play through their entirety two or more times. At five different points in the story, progress is halted unless youve found an entire rescue squad of Toads that are spread throughout the world. Its discouraging to think that youre about to enter a new area, only to be told that you cant continue without finding five or six Toads that are hiding in unspecified locations in previous levels.
The Magma Burger is one of the only important items you can buy with coins.

I changed my tune on one of my favorite areas by the end of it. The haunted hotel isnt combat-heavy, and focuses more on puzzle solving. I enjoyed trying to hunt down a collection of Toad ghosts so that they could organize a tea party. This area has several clever puzzles, and the reduced focus on combat was really helping me spend time with the things I liked about the game. When I was down to the last Toad that I had to collect, a grandfather clock rang and I was met with a game over screen. It had failed to adequately explain to me that there was a time limit for this area, and I was forced to start over from the beginning.

Even the sidequests feel useless. The biggest one involves temples in which you compete in rock-paper-scissors. Your prize for winning? Coins that you use to buy cards, and cards that you use to win fights that give you coins.

Every level has blank spots for Mario to fill in with paint. I initially enjoyed this side activity and shot for 100-percent colorization on every stage. This pursuit stopped once I realized that a character called the Shy Bandit pops up randomly to suck the color out of levels with a straw. If you dont catch him in time on the world map, your 100-percent colorization can go down to next to nothing. Even if you do get full colorization in an area, your reward is just unlockable music tracks.
Toads Toads Toads Toads Toads

Often, the method to advance the story will be completely unclear. Your talking paint can named Huey is supposed to help point you in the right direction if you press up on the d-pad, but he frequently has no advice beyond Hey, maybe you should talk to some Toads around town!

Thats never hard to do, because everything is a goddamn Toad in this game. Previous Paper Mario games have featured a wide variety of NPCs, complete with tons of different looks and personalities. In Color Splash, its just a bunch of Toads of different colors. Sometimes theyll have scarves. A couple of them had pirate hats. In the end, theyre all just Toads. Oh, you need to climb a mountain to talk to a wise old sage? Just a Toad. He doesnt even have a beard. Ghosts are all over this hotel? Theyre just Toads with an aura effect around them. I think one of them had glasses.

I cant remember the last time Ive been so thoroughly divided on a game. One part of me loves it. Its genuinely funny, and the writing and locations are fantastic. Prism Island is gorgeous, and the soundtrack meets the high bar of quality that Mario games are known for. In the end, though, I spent most of this game trying to avoid playing the biggest part of it. Every combat encounter reminds you of how broken a critical element of the game is, and they happen frequently. Its staggering how much this one system routinely destroyed my enthusiasm for the game.

With more traditional RPG mechanics and a real progression system, Paper Mario: Color Splash could have been one of the best games in the series. Because of some unfathomably ill-conceived decisions during the development process, its one of the very worst.

The new Gears gang looks good in the armor and knows how to cut an enemy with a chainsaw gun.

It's been awhile since Gears of War has felt absolutely vital. Five years, if you want to be a little more exact about it. The release of Gears of War 3 was the high-water mark for the series up to that point, both narratively as it closed off most of the loose ends you wanted to see wrapped up by the end of the trilogy and technically. Gears 3 was a great-looking Xbox 360 game that built up some terrific gameplay additions when compared to the earlier games in the franchise.

Since then, the series lost its way a bit. Epic seemed to drift away from game development, with its then-owned studio, People Can Fly, handling a Gears side story that filled in story gaps that didn't need filling and offering up gameplay twists that were occasionally interesting but usually superfluous. Not long after that, Microsoft realized the value of the Gears franchise and brought it in-house, converting one of its studios into a Gears-dedicated studio along the way. That team got its feet wet with a technically competent remake of the first Gears of War that really just made it obvious how much the series had improved over the course of that initial trilogy. Going back to Gears 1 just made me want to see a full, new Gears of War game.

Gears of War 4 is The Coalition's first full, new Gears of War game. And it feels like a good mix of old and new, capturing the characters and gameplay moments that made the series feel so impactful in the first place while advancing a new set of characters, a new, well-justified story, and the sort of multiplayer options you'd expect to see. It might not reinvent the gear, but it goes a long way to making the franchise feel alive in a way it hasn't since 2011. If nothing else, it's left me wanting to see more from the franchise and the team behind it.
Weather effects and stabbing both play a meaningful role in Gears 4.

Gears of War 4 is set years after the events of 3, where Marcus Fenix sat down, took his do-rag off, and made you think that the Locust threat was more or less over. Gears 4 puts you in the boots of Marcus' son, JD Fenix. It seems that the situation has changed since we last checked in on this universe, as the younger Fenix and his colleague Del have abandoned their post, left the Gears, and taken up with some "outsiders." The COG may have successfully fought off the Locust, but in the years that followed they seem to have become quite the oppressors themselves, with robots known as DBs doing most of the heavy lifting as they attempt to rebuild the planet and repopulate the race. It's politically muddy in ways that the previous trilogy would occasional hint at, but now you're seeing the effects of that trilogy spun out, 25 years later. It's a good swap that makes the good guys the bad guys, as the game opens with your crew of outsiders raiding a COG construction site.

The game doesn't spend much time actually exploring this new flip, though, as a new/old threat of creatures that come to be known as "the Swarm" rear their ugly head around halfway through the game. While the airdrops of robot troops made the game's opening chapters feel at least a little different, the Swarm come off as the Locust troops of the previous games but with somewhat better AI. They'll flank you, they'll hop over your cover to knock you back, but they'll also just post up behind something and take mindless shots in your direction. And they'll occasionally emerge from nests that look suspiciously like the Locust emergence holes. So the bulk of the game, then, just feels like more Gears of War with some new unspeakable creatures thrown in along the way, including a "snatcher" who sucks up downed players and traps them inside the creature's stomach until other players put enough rounds into the enemy, forcing it to puke the player back up. There's some neat stuff in there, but I was definitely left wishing that the campaign didn't cruise back into its comfort zone quite so quickly.

It also must be said that the game is really leaning into its status as the first step in a new Gears of War saga, sometimes at the expense of its own story. The world is interesting and I like its cast of characters, both new and old. Cool things happen along the way that enrich the Gears of War universe. But Gears of War 4 is mostly setup with very little in the way of resolution. The ending moments feels like they're missing an encounter or two.

You can play the campaign cooperatively with another person, or you can dive right into the game's multiplayer modes. The competitive multiplayer brings new weapons into the conflict, but that doesn't mean that it isn't still a map full of bulky, shotgun-toting fighters who love to roll up behind you and splatter you into a mess before you know what's happening. This is the fifth Gears of War game, and by this point you probably already know if you're into that sort of thing or not. I used to be, but as the competitive community developed and got better and sneaking up behind you and shotgunning you down, I fell out of love with this mode in the game. On one hand, it's a shame that this facet of the game isn't more inviting to new players. On the other... well... it's the fifth Gears of War game, and by this point you probably already know if you're into that sort of thing or not.
Some of the new enemies just look straight-up disgusting, but most of them blow up when they die. Fair trade.

Even as someone who isn't likely to spend any more time with the competitive side of the game, Gears of War 4 still feels like it has a lot to offer. Horde mode returns as the wave-based survival mode that up to five players can play. It uses a class-based system this time out with equippable bonuses and starting weapons that correspond to each class. Soldiers are your everyman Gears of War character, while Heavy players get bonuses to explosive damage. Engineers start with the repair tool for making sure your defenses are in working condition. Scouts collect more power out in the field, which is used to purchases new fortifications. And each class can equip a set of bounties and bonus cards.

Yes, Gears of War 4 is the latest in an increasingly long line of games to bring a card metaphor into the action. Here you'll open blind boxes (which you can grind out for a far-too-high price or spend actual money on) and get new characters, weapon skins, versus bonuses, Horde skills, and bounties. The skills are things like a card that gives you 20% damage bonus whenever you active reload in Horde mode. Bounties are things like "earn 20,000XP when you build 50 fortifications." And so on. Skill cards can be combined to increase their bonus potential and you'll earn the ability to equip multiple cards as you level up. It's a neat system that doesn't dig too deep into the single-use item side of microtransactions, but ultimately the rate at which you earn in-game currency seems way too low, making the game feel too biased in favor of real-money transactions. It's not enough to ruin the core of the Horde experience--which is one of the best wave-based survival modes in the business--but it's still a bummer.

Gears of War 4 is a great-looking game both on the PC and Xbox One, though with its higher frame rate potential and better resolution options, the PC version is the way to go, if you're able. The only real catch is that PC and Xbox One players can't mingle in the public, competitive side of the game. So if you're going in looking to play with friends against other humans, you'll all need to commit to the same version of the game to stick together. Horde mode and co-op don't enforce that same limitation, though it's easy to see why you'd want to keep the higher-fidelity mouse-and-keyboard crowd away from the controller users in competitive matches.

My time with Gears of War 4 left me with a feeling that the game could have been a little more ambitious in spots. It feels a little too safe and too unwilling to ditch some of the traditions of the initial trilogy. But the ways it plays around with and reintroduces the characters from those Gears of War games is expertly handled, making for some great moments along the way. It might not stick the landing, but Gears of War 4 puts the franchise back on the map in a big way, and large parts of it are a great time.

Lincoln Clay has a mission. If you've played any big open-world game of the last decade or so, you probably have a decent idea of what that mission is. In Mafia III, Lincoln is your archetypal revenge protagonist. Something has been taken from him; in this case, friends and adoptive family in a mob hit that should have left him dead too. In order to set things right, he has to tear through a detailed rendering of a familiar place--in this case, the city of New Bordeaux, which is loosely based on New Orleans circa 1968--laying waste to the various tiers of enemies that stand between him and the crime boss who betrayed him. You know this story. You know how this all plays out. You've avenged this sort of thing before.
Lincoln Clay returns to New Bordeaux looking to restart his old life. The Marcano crime family has other ideas.

Yet for all its familiar trappings, Mafia III stands out. A big part of that is the game's chosen setting, and how its protagonist fits into it. Lincoln Clay is a black man in the civil rights-era American South. This is an especially fraught time in American history, and Mafia III doesn't shy away from addressing the deeply racist realities of the time. How it chooses to address those realities against the backdrop of a standard open-world action game, complete with the busywork and body count that come part and parcel with this genre, is sometimes a troubling thing, but it's troubling in a way that at least inspires some critical thinking. It tries, and more often than not, succeeds at making Lincoln feel at odds with the world around him. And while the game never quite transcends its pulpier storytelling inspirations, there's an unusual humanity to both Lincoln and the characters that surround him that make this story worth seeing through to its conclusion.

That story kicks off with one of the more audacious introductions I've seen in a game in a good, long while. Fresh from a tour in the Vietnam War, Lincoln returns to his hometown of New Bordeaux looking to reconnect with his family. That's "family" in the classic mafia sense, mind you. Lincoln has history with New Bordeaux's black mob, an outfit that mostly works under the umbrella of the city's major power, the Italian Marcano crime family. Upon returning, he joins up with his cohorts to help the Marcanos rob a US Treasury depository, in the hopes of rescuing his crew from an outstanding debt. It's a stylish and lengthy sequence, presented nonlinearly with snippets from a modern day documentary about Clay's legendary rampage against the New Bordeaux mob. It's all set-up, of course. There can't be a rampage unless there's something to rampage against. In this case, Lincoln and his people are betrayed by the Marcanos, shot and left for dead in the burning wreckage of his crew's neighborhood bar. Lincoln is the only survivor of the assault, and upon recovering from his nonfatal head wound, he vows swift and severe vengeance upon the family that wronged him.

This sequence also paces itself completely differently from the rest of Mafia III's campaign. The prologue is a contained affair, with discreet areas to play that act as tutorials for the sorts of things you'll end up doing once the city opens up. Once Lincoln is set upon his mission, the entirety of New Bordeaux becomes explorable, though missions won't appear on the map until you've set your designs on a particular district.

Like Saints Row and last year's Assassin's Creed: Syndicate, Mafia III is a game of conquering territory. Each district of the city is run by a particular lieutenant in Marcano's operation. When you first choose a district to focus on, a number of small mission objectives appear. These are all tied to various rackets that the lieutenants manage. Though the rackets themselves are varied, the way you go about dismantling them is largely the same: kill everyone that isn't of personal use to you.
Mafia III's combat system can be immensely entertaining, which is good, since shooing bad guys is the vast majority of what you'll spend your time doing.

Mafia hangs its entire structure on gunfights. Yes, stealth is an option, and it's usually possible to lure a few dimwitted enemies to their doom just by whistling from around the corner and gutting them before they have time to react. But most situations still require at least a few bullets fired, and the game seems heavily tuned in favor of players engaging in full on hails of gunfire. The array of weapons included in Mafia III all pack a big punch, and enemies are specifically designed to die with maximum theatrics. Every bad guy seems to look for a nearby ledge to tumble over just before expiring, and if none is to be found, any piece of scenery ultimately ends up fitting the bill. Blood gushes everywhere, objects constantly explode, it's all a pulpy, violent mess.

That violence isn't inappropriate given the traditions of both the Mafia series and the open-world action genre in general. You know going into a game like this that by the end of it, you're going to leave a great deal of carnage in your wake. That the action is, by and large, satisfying, somewhat salves the feeling of repetition that sets in long before the game concludes. When I say that the game revolves around gunfights, I mean that in the near absolute. There's very little variety to Mafia III's mission designs. Occasional boostings of cars or destructions of properties only barely break up the hours upon hours of shootouts with extremely gullible guys sporting bomber jackets and/or giant sideburns. In a game with a less entertaining combat system, this would be ruinous. In Mafia III, I had a good enough time kicking doors down and shotgunning dudes through windows that I was mostly OK with it.

Eventually, all that grunt murdering draws out the big bad of the district. These are the big personalities of Mafia III, and the missions tied to them are easily the highlights of the game. They are, of course, still gunfights, but they take place in more interesting locations and let the writers stretch their legs a bit more. Of particular note are a fancy funeral turned LSD nightmare, and a big battle on a sinking riverboat as you hunt down big boss Sal Marcano's Foghorn Leghorn-sounding dumb ass of a brother.

Though you can sense a bit of blaxploitation influence in the game's villains, Mafia III's writers mostly avoid painting in overly broad strokes. That's most evident in the characters you ally yourself with during the course of the game. There's Cassandra, the leader of a Haitian gang who grudgingly aligns herself with you in the hopes of creating better opportunities for the predominantly black population of The Hollow. Burke is the former Jimmy Conway of the Marcano organization, an unmade Irish lieutenant on the outs after his son is killed during the prologue's post-robbery betrayal. And then there's Vito, who you may remember as the protagonist of Mafia II. He's a good bit older now, and in such deep water with the Marcanos that he's all but given up on living to see another day.
Each territory in New Bordeaux comes with an assortment of Marcano associates to weed out. Doing so is an admittedly repetitive process, but the boss encounters at the end of each district are worth the effort.

Everyone's motivated by understandable ends. Your lieutenants are all people wronged by the Marcanos in various ways, and they're all looking for their own kind of revenge against them. Those goals happen to align, but it's clear that the alliances you strike have to be managed. There's even a system built into the game that revolves around this. Each time you claim a territory you have the option to assign it to one of them during a sit-down. They'll each make their case for why they deserve to run this chunk of the city, usually a case made more emphatically if you've already assigned one or both of the rackets to them prior. Freeze one of them out enough times, and they may turn on you, unlocking a separate story mission you won't see if you manage to keep them happy.

It's a neat idea that's maybe a little too easily managed, given how volatile some of these personalities can be. I got through Mafia's campaign without having to fight any of my allies, and only once feeling like I was even close to that happening. It's a shame, because it's a good example of the way Mafia III tries to make the things you do in the game have some weight beyond the act of killing. It also makes the upgrade trees associated with those characters feel kind of moot, since keeping them all happy ensures that you'll never unlock any one tree to its full extent. Most of the benefits you'd want are unlocked early on, but that just makes the higher tier benefits seem superfluous.

All that said, keeping them all alive has its benefits too. The side missions you end up embarking on for each lieutenant offer up some additional backstory for each of them, and some of the strongest writing in the game crops up during these sequences. You learn about the various people who betrayed Vito and led him to the point of expecting death around every corner, discover the ties Burke still holds to the IRA and his frayed relationship with his surviving daughter, and grow to understand Cassandra's larger goal of arming the people of The Hollow against the myriad elements that would seek to oppress and destroy them.
Divvying out territory to your associates has repercussions. Leave one of them feeling ignored, and they may turn on you.

Cassandra's plight in particular feels like the thrust of what Mafia III ultimately wants to explore. This isn't a game content to just drape itself in the kinds of loaded imagery and language associated with this time and place. The kind of bald-faced racism of 1960s America isn't difficult to portray on its own. It's not hard to write a bunch of slurs into every dialogue sequence and include some comically evil Klan members to kick around. What's harder is to take that kind of miserable racism and apply it to the very structure of the world you're inhabiting. You see it in the smallest details, hear it in casual conversations between NPCs. Richer neighborhoods in the game offer a stronger police presence than poorer neighborhoods, and business owners don't hesitate to call them if you walk into a shop labeled "whites only." Rarely does an interaction take place in the game that doesn't remind you of the imbalance of power between people like you, and the people who hold sway in this city.

In one early cutscene, Lincoln visits a country club at the behest of the Marcanos, and as he walks up alongside Sal's son Georgi, a woman hurries past them, clutching at her purse and nervously eyeing Lincoln as he goes. It's tempting to point out that any preconception this woman might have about Lincoln is ultimately proved true. He is a criminal, prone to violence and theft. But at the same time, consider that he's there with Georgi, the brash, clearly unconcerned son of the city's most notorious crime boss. It's well-established in the game that the Marcanos are a visible entity in the city. People know who they are, and likely know what they are. Nobody at the country club seems afraid of Sal or Georgi, but in strolls Lincoln, and suddenly all eyes are fixated. It doesn't matter what terrible things you're into in New Bordeaux, so long as you're of the right complexion.

The game can absolutely be heavy-handed about this, and there are as many times where it betrays that feeling of oppression. After all, this is an open-world power fantasy, and for as much legwork as the script does to make the structural racism of the city feel realistic, it can never make things too oppressive for the player, otherwise the game wouldn't be fun. So while you're limited somewhat by police presence, in most situations you can still drive like a lunatic around the city and kill with impunity, so long as you do it just far enough away from the eyes of the law. And for as much humanity as the writers imbue Lincoln and his crew with, they're still violent, mostly unrepentant murderers. At times, the game seems like it wants to wrestle with this. Some late game conversations scratch at the notion that the only real difference between Lincoln and the men he's after is a slightly more rigid, but almost equally dubious moral code (not to mention the color of their skin). But it never goes too deeply into this, seeming content with simply raising the question while allowing its tale of revenge to play out mostly straightforwardly.

Still, in the context of a mass market video game, the sort where players are routinely asked to sympathize with killers because their cause is justified by one of a few interchangeable, focus-tested backstories, Mafia III's attempts to dig into the structural oppression of its era, and the ways in which that informs both Lincoln and Cassandra's choices, feel like a minor revelation. So often games seem content to wear the skin of political oppression, without delving too deeply into the realities of it. Mafia III doesn't do that. It lends weight to its story by painting its primary characters as deeply flawed, even sometimes believable human beings. Even its most cartoonishly vile personalities--of which there are a few--don't feel too far beyond the kinds of hateful mouthpieces we frequently see in today's political arena.
As much as bugs and glitches are expected in this genre, it's no less disappointing when they appear with the frequency that they do in Mafia III.
As much as bugs and glitches are expected in this genre, it's no less disappointing when they appear with the frequency that they do in Mafia III.

If anything ultimately does undercut Mafia III's aims, it's the game's lack of technical prowess. New Bordeaux is a diverse and lovingly rendered city, but bugs frequently crop up, often enough that the game has difficulty maintaining a sense of immersion. Most of these are merely of the annoying variety; glitchy textures and animations, broken physics, and the like. More severe issues, like side mission objectives appearing on the map when a side mission isn't actually active, and the odd crash bug, cropped up during my time with the game as well. In a less serious game, those kinds of issues would normally be a simple source of amusement. But in Mafia III, it robs scenes of intended impact when your jacket texture is tearing off in eight different directions, or the character you're hearing a tragic story from is inexplicably overlaid on top of a separate, immobile model of the same character.

Ultimately, technical gaffes and issues of design repetition weren't enough to stop me from appreciating Mafia III. The writers and voice actors turn in the strongest work, crafting and performing a story that manages to rise above the conventional open-world structure it's working within. When Mafia III does falter, it's where it most willingly gives in to those open-world conventions, resting back on the kinds of activities and mechanics we've seen done time and time again in games just like this. It's not unfair to want Mafia III to be better than it is, but I think it's still worth admiring for what it manages to pull off.

Titanfall 2 lets you play as a human-sized robot, which can call down giant, AI-powered robotic mech suits, which you can then get into and pilot. The little robot climbs into the bigger robot, and then you boost around and blow up your enemies... some of whom are also robots. Your loadout options include ninja stars that catch on fire when they hit, burning pilots to death and blinding the giant titan suits, should your aim be true. It features a limited-use colosseum mode that looks like the developers just wanted to include a one-on-one Rocket Arena-like option. Titanfall 2 might not fix every issue you had with the previous game (and depending on your tastes, it might introduce one or two new ones), but it's a bigger, bolder game that takes a few chances and comes out better and more distinctive for it. On top of all that, it simply feels great.

Let's talk about that feel a bit more, because it's a big part of what separates Titanfall 2 from other games of its ilk. I'm talking about the sort of feel that makes every weapon in the game fun to handle. The aiming is really sharp (with a handful of analog stick options that can help you dial it in the way you like it). There's a satisfying, crunchy little noise that plays every time you hit your target. It provides a rewarding bit of feedback when you land shots. Those gunshots, even though you're dealing with futuristic weaponry, are still recognizable as the sound of damage being induced. The short burst of a shotgun blast thwips more than it booms, but the weapons still sound effective, rather than weak or quiet.

That all lines up with the game's movement. Double jumping gives you just the right amount of air control to let you correct your mistakes mid-flight, but without making the jumps overly floaty or sluggish. Wallruns, knee slides, and jumping out of a slide are all things that make you move more quickly than your typical run speed, which might make you harder to hit, sure, but it also makes the act of traversal an active component of the game, rather than something you do to get back to the action. New abilities, like a grappling hook, and old ones like a speed boosting stim, give further depth to your movement. Chaining those wallruns together and finding quicker ways to get from one end of a multiplayer map to the other almost becomes a little game unto itself, but once you spend enough time with those abilities, parts of it start to become second nature. It feels... great.

It's also different than the previous game in some meaningful ways. In multiplayer, titans no longer drop with a shield, so any damage they take goes directly to the hull. Now there's a large mechanic around securing batteries by either finding them on the map or stealing them by jumping onto an enemy titan. Delivering a battery to a friendly titan charges up its shield, helping it live longer. It creates opportunities for teamwork that especially shine in the Last Titan Standing mode, where keeping those big suits alive is, obviously, the key to victory. These changes make titans less resilient if you're a careless player, but you can get a lot out of one titan if you're playing carefully and feeding it batteries whenever appropriate. There are also more titans in the game to choose from, giving you access to different weapon loadouts and bonus core abilities that are usually quite devastating.

The on-foot loadouts for pilots are nicely expanded, too, with a bevy of guns that potentially fit different playstyles, but considering the map size (relatively large, though not "Battlefield large"), it's hard to find a great reason to use weapons built for shorter ranges, like SMGs and shotguns. When I'm firing on a guy that's running across a rooftop halfway across the map. I need something that's going to not have a ton of recoil so I can be relatively accurate without having to actually get tight enough to be a good sniper. So assault rifles and a smattering of LMGs seem to win the day here, as far as I'm concerned. They seem to offer the most versatility, covering short and medium range quite well. Beyond that, you'll unlock more things for the guns and titans you use as you use them more frequently and effectively, from improved reload times to camo patterns.

There's a good variety to the included modes in Titanfall 2, even though the co-op-focused Frontier Defense mode or some other, similar cooperative experience didn't make the transition over from the previous game. It's got a smattering of objective-based modes and a handful that simply focus on being good at shooting down enemies. The catch is that most of these modes don't have any AI combatants in them. That might seem like a weird thing to miss, but having some fodder in the maps gives you something to do as you're running back to the conflict after a respawn. Considering the maps are large enough to contain a full set of on-foot pilots and titans at the same time, sometimes you find yourself running a little longer than you'd like just to see another player. So that lack of AI--the game's Attrition mode still has them in place--ends up making those maps occasionally feel empty and a bit lifeless.


There are a lot of other smart little things in Titanfall 2's multiplayer, from in-game "networks" that let you easily group up with other like-minded players to factions that change your match announcer to credits that let you permanently unlock items that stay open even after you hit the max level and "regenerate" back to level 1. But overall, the key thing, again, is that it really feels great. Even running back to the action after respawning can be fun, if you're adept at all your movement options. It's fun to play... except for Capture the Flag, but I guess I haven't liked CTF in any game since Quake II, so maybe that's no surprise.

The campaign, while relatively slight by comparison, is surprisingly engaging and helpful. It changes things up from level to level, working in the satisfying wall runs and platforming where appropriate to create sections that play more like little jumping challenges than your standard first-person shooter maps. The story is simple and, overall, parts of the game are a little disjointed, but it manages to pull together some decent characters, good voiceover performances, and fun little boss fights that actually help you get more comfortable with piloting a titan. The campaign also goes places, packing in some moments that manage to seem ridiculous as a part of this larger story while also feeling really great from a gameplay perspective. When the game does finally drop you into a large scenario full of titans on both sides of the conflict, it takes on the vibe of a pretty good action movie. It does a good job of making you seem smart when you're finding collectibles and tough when you're crushing your opposition. It's not super long, but it also doesn't dwell on any one type of gameplay for too long, either. It strikes a better balance than you might expect from a first-person shooter campaign, even if it sometimes comes across more like a bunch of disparate parts that were strung together with a story about a man and his giant robot suit hung around the edges.


Ultimately, different people want different things out of their console-style competitive shooters these days, and the market has split between this type of faster shooter and the larger scale and more deliberate style of a Battlefield game. If you're forever on the Battlefield side of things, this type of high-speed action might not be up your alley at all. For my part, Titanfall 2 improves greatly upon the first game and stands up there alongside some of my favorite games in the Call of Duty franchise.

Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare isn't the best Call of Duty has ever been, but it's almost certainly the most Call of Duty Activision has ever placed into a single package. For $60 you'll get that now-standard three-pronged Call of Duty attack, with a campaign, competitive multiplayer, and cooperative zombie survival multiplayer. Go above and beyond that and you'll also get a remastered version of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, the game that sent us down this perk and loadout-filled road to begin with. It's a lot of stuff, and some of that stuff is maybe better than its ever been. But just as much, if not more of those different chunks of video game are far enough off the mark that it's still hard to recommend Infinite Warfare, especially in a year that presents a higher-than-normal number of other, better options.

The campaign, for once, is the shining star of Call of Duty this year. Infinite Warfare casts off all of the tip-toeing "near-future" steps we've seen in the past few games and just drops you in a world where our military can traipse around the solar system with ease. A world of giant capital spaceships serve as the center of space dogfights. A world of... yes, that's right, space marines. At times, the setting and tech utilized in Infinite Warfare reads more like a Halo prequel than a Call of Duty game, but it's a weird mash-up of huge, futuristic space battles and a set of characters that deliver all the "Oscar Mikes" and "Bravo Zulus" that you'd expect from, like, a Modern Warfare 2-era military shooter. It's a game where you hide behind rocks and take out distant troopers with sniper rifles, except those rocks are floating in space and those troops are hanging out in spacesuits on the outside of a battle platform. These disparate elements clash in spots, but that helps give Infinite Warfare an identity and a future of its own. This isn't space opera, this is space ops.
Flight combat is a huge part of this year's campaign.

You play as an ace jet fighter pilot who is also, somehow, the best man for the job when it comes to stealth, shooting people with guns, melee combat, whatever. Oh, and you also very quickly become the captain of your own ship, in case the power fantasy wasn't thick enough for you already. As such, you call the shots and then go on the missions to execute the shots you call. This takes the form of a map of the solar system that gets peppered with side missions that you can take on, or you can skip to the next story mission and cruise through an already-shooter-length campaign even faster. But the side content is either brief enough to make for a fun diversion or cool enough to be worth seeing. The missions typically break down into pure dogfights, where you remain in your fighter the entire time and take out enemy fighters and a variety of larger ships, or assaults on enemy ships that require you to do some dirt on-foot. Many of these start out with some fighter piloting, too, but some of these contain inventive ways to sneak up on enemy space stations and ships as you infiltrate, mess things up, and find a way out to the relative safety of space. A couple of these missions even rely on some basic stealth mechanics. All in all, the flow of the campaign feels bigger and better than it's been in a long time, with a good amount of variety between your standard runnin' and shootin', space hijinks, some quieter stealth moments, and the sorts of hellish things you can put into a game when large parts of it take place in areas with no oxygen.

The campaign's story is straightforward, but effective. It's your standard "the people who worked on the space frontier decided that the people of Earth were their enemy" tale, though their actual motives are never made clear enough to make them feel more than "the bad guys." The tale gets grim by the end, and for a franchise that's been killing off protagonists left and right for years, that's saying something. It's interesting to have a Call of Duty game be just as much about the sacrifices required to achieve victory as it is about the victory itself. The campaign is time well spent.

I feel far less certain about any other part of Infinite Warfare. The competitive multiplayer feels like a lightly tweaked version of last year's game. The movement, right down to the squirty boost jumps and sluggish wallruns, seems unchanged. And yet, the maps still feel like they weren't built with these abilities in mind, as there are plenty of walls that you can't run on for some reason and rooftops that you should, in theory, be able to get to. But you can't, because of invisible walls and such. The movement seems like it should open up tons of new possibilities and make things exciting. But, like last year's game, it falls flat. Sure, it looks nice and there are some neat gadgets to fool with and new loadout options to pore over, but the competitive multiplayer in Infinite Warfare commits what might be the franchise's worst sin to date: it's boring. They finally got to a point where they could put maps on the moons of Jupiter, Mars, Earth, space stations, wherever... and even that potentially amazing change of scenery doesn't save it. It feels lifeless and flat, full of half-realized ideas and combat rig abilities that seem designed to inject some unique traits into the gameplay, but instead they just come off like the character abilities from last year's game.
Spending some extra money on this year's game also gets you a remastered version of 2007's game.

Of course, people on the outside looking in might say that Call of Duty has been the same every year and that this game is "boring" is nothing new. They're wrong. Despite some of the year-to-year changes sometimes feeling like taking two steps forward and one step back, most of the games in the COD line have their own twists on a similar feel. They're distinct animals of the same species. I used to get really irked at the way the Treyarch-developed games would have the dolphin dive while the Infinity Ward games didn't. These changes always looked like some kind of weird... inter-studio politics or something. But now that it's been more or less codified and homogenized from last year into this year, I see I was wrong. Or, at least, if I was right, then this was the exact wrong year to start unifying the game's multiplayer design from one year to the next. If I'm picking and I'm limited to COD multiplayer games, I'm still picking Advanced Warfare or Black Ops II. Or... Black Ops, I guess. I mean, at least Black Ops had Ice Cube in it as a multiplayer announcer. Infinite Warfare gives you a series of faceless playable characters, ensuring that even the non-robot characters just kinda look like robots, too. If you grind out enough keys or spend some real money on "COD points" you can unlock some additional cosmetic options. Maybe some of those liven things up a bit.

The third prong of Infinite Warfare is its co-op mode, which is a survival mode where players team up to fight zombies. The most notable thing about this is probably that this is an Infinity Ward year for the franchise, and IW-led games haven't "done" zombies before. This one has a 1980s horror movie vibe to it. I won't waste your time rehashing my arguments about why zombies mode is a weak addition to the franchise that never felt like it fit in the first place and that it's crazy that this weird joke of a post-campaign bonus has become so popular anyway. This one has David Hasselhoff in it. It also has a handful of Atari 2600 games, which is a cool little touch. I still miss Spec Ops from MW2.

If you decide to spend somewhat more money on Call of Duty, you can also play a remake of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. This gets you the campaign and a revamped multiplayer mode. It's a cool addition that adds like 20 more multiplayer "hoppers" to the game, making you wonder if they're perhaps spreading this all too thin. That said, it's nice to be able to play a proper match of Headquarters again. Though I went into MW Remastered expecting its relative simplicity to feel like a breath of fresh air when compared to the weighted-down bulk of the current Call of Duty, it comes off as more of a curiosity than anything else. It's neat to relive this 2007 campaign, but doing so also exposes some of the issues that have since been dealt with in newer games, like areas that seem to spawn enemies forever until you move onto the next trigger to advance the story.
Space marine!

The MW Remastered multiplayer gets some more modern tweaks, like the addition of medals, calling cards, player icons, and the Kill Confirmed mode that wouldn't appear until Modern Warfare 3. The loadout options are simpler, but in some ways feel crude compared to the more flexible "Pick 10" system that has become fairly commonplace in the franchise. I played a lot of COD4. I put Double Tap onto a P90, slapped on Bandolier and Steady Aim, and went to town. I've called in and shot down more helicopters than you've had hot meals! MW Remastered is a lovely remake of an amazing game. But you can't go home again. MW ends up feeling stripped down compared to what we think of as "modern" Call of Duty games. It'd be great to see more of the classic games in the franchise get this treatment in the future, but packing it in with a core Call of Duty game just seems to offer too many options. Should I care about leveling up my weird gun robot in Infinite Warfare? Or should I be working towards unlocking that G36C in MW Remastered? Maybe this would all work better if the progression was combined across the two games or something. I don't know. It's a weird package that would feel less weird if the publisher was selling this remake on its own. It probably will, someday, but for now you're stuck buying More Call of Duty Than You'd Ever Actually Need to get it.

That's probably the weirdest part about this year's Call of Duty. There are terrific pieces in there. The Infinite Warfare campaign is really a sight to see, and its mix of outer space dogfights and boots-on-the-ground combat is really cool. It's the best campaign Call of Duty's turned out in years. But the rest of the Infinite Warfare package feels lackluster and as cool as Modern Warfare Remastered is, it feels more like a fun little curio than a full-fledged game. This franchise can certainly do better than this, and in a year that is uncommonly stacked with some amazing first-person shooter campaigns and multiplayer modes, it's going to have to do better than this if it wants to maintain its relevance.

If you're looking for actual purchasing advice--and because people keep asking me specifically if the game is worth buying for the campaign alone--MW Remastered is worth purchasing if and when it goes on sale separately from Infinite Warfare, but might not keep you engaged for as long as you'd initially assume. And the IW campaign is great, but not long or replayable enough to warrant a full-priced purchase on its own. But if you can find it at a discount, or if you're a big fan of the zombies mode, there's enough there to make it worth seeing.

Mass Effect: Andromeda is a marked improvement over its predecessors in two areas: graphics and gunplay. The Frostbite engine proves itself quite capable of rendering the best-looking alien locales in Mass Effect history, and the shooting is more nimble and varied than it's ever been. In every other way--assembling a crew of engaging characters, meeting exotic aliens with intriguing stories to tell, flying around in your own starship solving problems big and small in a galaxy colored in shades of gray; in other words all the things that make Mass Effect unique and memorable--Andromeda takes one, two, or three steps back. It's also an utter mess in a technical sense. There are a few enjoyable moments here and there, and over time you can see the skeletal framework of a better game start to emerge, but given the heights Mass Effect has reached in the past, it's hard to believe this is what we've been waiting five years for.

BioWare gave itself an easy out with this game's story, after Mass Effect 3's controversial conclusion to the Reaper threat pretty much rewrote the rules of the series' familiar setting. That in itself is a missed opportunity; in a setting already rife with interspecies sociopolitical strife, exploring how the balance of power shifted in the Milky Way after the Reapers were out of the picture could have been fertile narrative ground. Instead, we've sailed a bunch of colony ships 600 years into the future and to the Andromeda galaxy, wiping the slate clean for the writers to lay down a whole new set of rules. But the game does very little of interest with this new freedom. In leaving behind a game world that revolves around ancient alien technology to reach this new environment of limitless possibilities we get... another galaxy that revolves around a different set of ancient alien technology, and for the most part that tech merely serves as a convenient space-magic plot driver rather than a narrative direction to be explored in its own right. You just happen to be the only character in all of Andromeda who can interface with this technology; be prepared to activate weird alien terminals to make plot things happen without any explanation, time and again.
It takes all kinds to settle another galaxy.

In addition to humans, Mass Effect standbys like turians, salarians, and krogans have made the trip to Andromeda, but with a few exceptions like a colony of angry krogan exiles, these species' unique characteristics are mostly deemphasized so the story can use them interchangeably in the colonization efforts. Story-wise, there's some early promise in the way things have gone wrong with the Andromeda Initiative; when you show up, there's been death and revolt on the Nexus (a slightly contrived Citadel stand-in space station), resulting in a minor crisis of Initiative leadership and an array of exiled Milky Way scoundrels scattered around the Heleus cluster, the small area of Andromeda where the game takes place. It also happens that none of the other colony ships have shown up on time, which creates a tantalizing mystery to solve. The story gets just a bit of interesting mileage out of the bureaucratic squabbles inherent in running a space colonization effort--who gets thawed out when is a major point of contention--and the ethical considerations of settling on already inhabited planets, but the game doesn't explore these areas as thoroughly as you'd want and expect out of Mass Effect, and the puzzle of those other missing ships, dangled in front of you for most of the game, isn't resolved in a particularly surprising way either.

The series' more esoteric factions like the quarians, volus, geth, elcor, and hanar are written out of the game entirely, and in their place there are exactly two new alien races, both of which largely manifest as humanoid soldiers with assault rifles for you to shoot at. Outside combat, the indigenous angarans serve as a scattered, oppressed native species trying to recover its history after centuries of turmoil brought on by the Scourge, a violent dark-energy phenomenon that never gets satisfyingly explained. The angarans have in more recent decades been subjugated by the kett, the monolithic, religious-cult antagonist force made up of silly-looking aliens covered in bony plates. Andromeda pays some lip service early on to the delicate nature of first contact with these new races, but in practice it rushes you through these encounters, and foregoes any narrative weight they might have had, so you can start accepting quests from or shooting at these new aliens, or both. Later there are a few brief attempts to flesh out the nature of the angaran and kett societies, but the game doesn't go far enough in that direction to give you much to chew on. Andromeda also references aspects of the previous three games on a regular basis, but almost all of these references feel shoehorned in, in a way intended to make you go "hey, I remember that!" rather than believably enhancing the story or contextualizing the new characters. There's a particular late-game reveal in this vein that was so predictable I almost felt insulted by it.
The combat is the best thing here, believe it or not.

I could happily look past a trite and overly video-gamey core scenario if Andromeda's assembled cast of crew mates and peripheral figures were as engaging as in previous games; Mass Effect has frequently done its best storytelling around the edges of the main plot, after all. But despite a couple of interesting origin stories--Cora, the human biotic so freakishly powerful she ended up running with an asari commando unit, and Jaal, the contemplative angaran warrior-monk type who's probably the standout party member--I never got close to feeling the same attachment for Andromeda's squadmates that I did for the various crews of the Normandy, nor did any of the dozens of incidental characters or side quest storylines connect with me in an especially memorable way.

There's been plenty of uproar about the game's lousy facial animations, and those are certainly a problem. Seriously, it rarely feels like these characters make eye contact with each other while they're talking, instead staring glassily into the distance or tilting their eyes wildly around the room. But worse, an awful lot of the dialogue in Andromeda is just awkwardly written and presented. There are some really peculiar turns of phrase and a ton of sloppy, poorly paced editing in cutscenes that makes it hard to connect with and sometimes even understand what people are talking about or what just happened. A few of the cutscenes, especially in side quests and even a couple of your party members' loyalty missions, are so disjointedly assembled that they almost feel like they were never all the way finished. You do get a few fun or touching character moments here and there, but those moments are exceptions to the rule. There's an obvious shift in the tone and quality of the writing from that of previous Mass Effect games, and most of it doesn't land well. In a series I've always thought of primarily as a conversation simulator with some shooting thrown in as a bonus, that's a serious problem.
Even in the far-flung future, Twitter still sucks.

BioWare has taken Mass Effect in an open-world direction with Andromeda, giving you four major planets to explore in your six-wheel-drive vehicle (along with a handful of other smaller planetary areas to explore on foot). The idea of tearing around wild alien worlds, finding lots of cool little space stories to explore is exciting at first, until you realize that the vast bulk of the quest design in Andromeda is incredibly bland. Outside of the main storyline missions, which are at least focused and move at a brisk enough pace, you'll have the chance to solve dozens of aggressively uninteresting space errands that mainly involve you going to one or more places the quest giver tells you, scanning/using/picking up/killing something, then returning for a couple of lines of inconsequential dialogue and some experience points. The game also crowds your log with an absolutely overwhelming number of quests split into four different tiers and across multiple locations, to the point that it can become nearly impossible to keep track of everything you have on your plate at once. I eventually gave up on trying to keep all the quests straight in my log and just looked at all the objective markers on the map anytime I returned to an old location, and it's telling that quite often when I got around to finishing a given side quest, I'd forgotten who gave it to me or why I was doing it in the first place. The in-game map is unwieldy and not very detailed, and the on-screen compass is pretty bad at pointing you toward nearby objectives too. For a game built around dozens of quests, the tools for organizing and tracking those quests aren't very helpful at all.

Worse, many of the longer quest chains require you to bounce back and forth between multiple planets for contrived reasons, and since the transit animations between systems and from planet to planet are all interminably long and unskippable, a side quest that could have been completed in a couple of minutes in a single location becomes agonizingly tedious as it stretches over 20 minutes or more. At one point late in the game I spoke to a character at a crashed shuttle who... instructed me to go meet him in a cave on a completely different planet, where, after five minutes of travel, we had a 30-second conversation that ended the quest. There's a remarkable amount of back-and-forth and busywork involved in most of the side quests, and the little shreds of world-building payoffs you get from finishing them rarely feel worth it. Even the best (or, if you like, the most Mass Effect-y) side quest lines that come to mind don't feel up to the series' standards. One, which involves you duping a group of anti-AI terrorists into thinking they've hacked the computer in your head, thoughtfully explores the deep mistrust for artificial intelligence that exists in the Mass Effect universe via a few datapads strewn around, but even that quest ends in an underwhelming way. And those datapads were among the very few that really felt worth stopping to look at. Actually, that might be the most damning thing I can say about Andromeda: I quickly stopped caring about reading anything I didn't have to. Previous games made you voraciously want to read everything.
The family backstory the game conjures up for your character is... not great.

One of the more satisfying things about the way Andromeda plays out comes as you travel from planet to planet, solving a bunch of local problems that eventually makes way for you to establish an outpost, at which point a bunch of pre-fab settlement buildings drop out of the sky and you've got a nice little base where before there was only alien wilderness. This feeds into a perk system--nominally, you're generating extra resources that let you thaw out more specialists on the Nexus, though in practice you're just unlocking passive upgrades--and the first time you build a base, you're even asked whether you want a scientific facility or a military outpost. Unfortunately that choice doesn't manifest in very meaningful ways, and you're never even given the choice again, but it did make me briefly hope some kind of management-sim layer would manifest and let me tweak a bunch of particulars about the way the different colonies were being run. But like most of the good ideas in Andromeda, this one isn't explored very much. It's satisfying to plunk all those colonies down and watch them populate, with shuttles coming and going. It's just a shame they only function as side quest dispensers when the colonial effort could have become a core pillar of the gameplay.

The combat in Mass Effect: Andromeda is probably the best in the series and certainly the most successful thing in this package, which in itself is kind of a wild thing to say about a Mass Effect game. Even though you lose the ability to pause time and issue specific orders to your squadmates, you gain a set of jump jets that let you boost into the air and dash around the battlefield in a really fast-paced, satisfying way. The game also removes any notion of class restrictions; you can now put skill points into any ability from the combat, tech, and biotic categories, allowing you to put together whatever mishmash of powers you want. Moreover, the game unlocks hybrid "profiles" based on your skill allocation that gives you further buffs to the categories you've invested heavily in, and you earn enough skill points in a typical playthrough to experiment quite a bit and find play styles you like.
It's satisfying to build up your colonial outposts, but ultimately they don't add much to the game.

There's a decent set of crafting tools available that let you customize a wide array of weapons and armor to fit your play style which is relatively satisfying to dig into, although just like the quest interface, the gear and crafting are complicated by layer upon layer of unwieldy menus. And ultimately, after nearly 80 hours even the combat had thoroughly worn out its welcome with me due to a relative lack of variety in encounter design. Even the very last fight in the game is just a 20-minute slog against the exact same types of enemies you've been facing down for the entire game. If you really like the combat--and it is a lot of fun--the wave-based multiplayer from Mass Effect 3 returns here and offers a small variety of specific objectives--hack terminals, hold territory, take out VIP enemies--in addition to the standard kill-everything waves. There's a ton of unlockable character classes, weapons, and gear to collect and level up if you want to spend a lot of time grinding in multiplayer, and some missions even funnel materials back into your single-player campaign, but even with some variations in the types of enemies you fight each time out, I'd gotten my fill of the handful of maps available after a few hours.

If the game worked as advertised it would be merely decent to middling, but the technical state of Andromeda at the time of this writing is astonishingly poor, at least on the PlayStation 4. I just can't overstate how buggy this game is, nor can I remember ever playing a full-priced, marquee video game from a major publisher with such an embarrassingly wide array of glaring issues. I could fill the entire space of this review with nothing but the bugs I ran into, which tended to affect practically every aspect of the game, from conversations to NPC animations to quest logic, sound effects and dialogue triggers, combat encounters, character collision, crashes and infinite loading screens, and more. Some quests refused to complete when I satisfied their conditions; on the other hand, one particular early-game quest I'd already completed kept reasserting itself as my active quest hours later. One relatively major quest line disappeared from my log entirely, never to be seen again. The game occasionally thought I was in combat on my ship, where combat isn't even possible, and popped up the combat UI and visibly recharged my character's shields.

NPCs get stuck in the wrong animation, teleport around during conversation scenes, clip through scenery, or snap into T-poses so often during cutscenes that you just learn to start ignoring it, provided you can stop laughing. Characters talked over themselves with a second line of dialogue triggering on top of the first one. Dialogue about your exploits will occasionally contradict your quest progress and at one point a character referred to a quest as both complete and in progress in the same conversation. One of the rooms of my ship frequently failed to load as I walked by it, making the doorway look like a gaping hole into deep space. Enemies frequently get stuck in the world, preventing you from advancing quest progress. Quest-critical talk prompts would occasionally just refuse to work until I quit and restarted the game. A couple of times, quest scripting and cutscenes broke in such spectacular fashion that words don't do justice to the chaos (though you can see one of them embedded above). I could go on and on (and on), and any one or two of these issues in an otherwise functional game would be forgivable, but there are times when it feels like you're hitting several of these problems every hour, and over the course of dozens of hours it just undermines your ability to take the game seriously at all. BioWare has an alarmingly thin list of known issues on its forums, but has also pledged to address the state of the game in the near future. For the sake of their customers their plan had better start with some intensive bug-fixing before any DLC rolls out, because as it stands right now this thing is a real mess. Andromeda shouldn't have shipped like this.

For me, Mass Effect has at times been the best thing going in video games, so to see the franchise in such a sorry state is actually a little painful. Following up on Mass Effect 3 was never going to be easy, not just because that game's ending left so many people cold but also simply because the story had been told, the book on Commander Shepard closed. For the start of a new chapter to be so bad at the things Mass Effect has traditionally been so good at raises serious questions about where the series, and perhaps even BioWare, go from here.

Resident Evil has remained a prominent name in gaming for almost 20 years partially because of its willingness to experiment with its formula. Granted, the name has been attached to numerous questionable projects in the past. From light gun games (Survivor, Umbrella Chronicles) to early online offerings (Outbreak) to multiplayer shooters (Operation Raccoon City, Umbrella Corps) and more, Capcom has never been afraid to throw ideas at their big Resident Evil board and see what sticks. In the core, numbered series, however, change has meant much more than it has in its many spin-offs.

The first two games were undeniable highlights in the history of the PSX. Tank controls were a controversial feature, but the series was an immediate success. After Resident Evil 3: Nemesis was released, the refrain from some of the fan base was a desire for something new. That game wasnt a failure by any stretch, but the series needed a shot in the arm. When Resident Evil 4 released for the GameCube in 2005, it was simultaneously referred to as one of the greatest games of all time by some, and derided by longtime fans for its more action-oriented gameplay and over-the-shoulder perspective. It may have done away with the deliberate controls and horror movie tone of the past, but it was a monstrous success on all fronts.
The fictional town of Dulvey, Louisiana serves as the game's backdrop.

This new trilogy of Resident Evil games saw diminishing returns going forward. Resident Evil 5 featured a heavy focus on co-op gameplay, but veered even more towards action and away from the series roots (despite plenty of fan service callbacks in the form of returning characters). By the time the sixth entry was released in 2012, Resident Evil felt like a generic Japanese action game, bearing almost no resemblance to the games that made the series a phenomenon in the first place.

To keep Resident Evil relevant, Capcom would need to shake up its formula just as they had done between its third and fourth entries. With Resident Evil 7, its clear that they went back to the drawing board once again and reconsidered core components of the franchises DNA. The end result is a resurrection of many of the elements that made the original games great, while at the same time introducing a new perspective and the best story yet.

New characters and a fresh narrative feel extremely welcome after the mishmash of story threads and numerous characters of Resident Evil 6. The setup is simple enough: You play as Ethan Winters, a man in search of his missing wife Mia. Shes been presumed dead for several years, and Ethans search leads him to the swamps of Louisiana. This simple premise naturally opens up to reveal a more sinister plot, and it manages to remain intriguing while avoiding the convoluted nature of many past games in the series.

At the core of the story is the Baker family that Ethan encounters early on in the game. Their presence is immediately unsettling, and their actions and demeanor make it unclear what exactly is wrong with them. They seem at times to be cannibals, zombies, psychopaths, or some combination of the three. The opening hours of the game are especially effective in terms of scares, as I was always worried that one of them would be waiting just around the corner.
Meet Jack. I hate Jack.

These moments can feel like the best parts of Amnesia: The Dark Descent at times. Ethan doesnt have much in the way of firepower at his disposal early on, so I frequently found myself crouching behind cover and praying that one of the Bakers didnt spot me. When they did, the ensuing chases were often thrilling. I lost track of how many times I frantically ran down hallways, trying to zigzag through rooms and close doors behind me in an effort to shake my pursuer. These tense sequences are helped in no small part by the absence of the loading doors that were trademarks of early games in the series. Load times are occasionally present when youre entering a completely new area or triggering a flashback, but for the most part youre free to go straight through any unlocked door without waiting.

While Resident Evil 7 may seem like its taking the franchise in a radical new direction in some ways (most notably, the first-person perspective), its core formula feels remarkably similar to the original PlayStation games. After a prologue sequence leads you by the hand for a bit, a larger area opens up and familiar elements immediately reappear. This area is filled with locked doors, with many indicating that they require a particular key or elaborate assortment of objects to open. Exploring various rooms yields plenty of drawers filled with ammo, lockpicks, notes scrawled on photos, and ominous diary entries. Safe rooms offer relief with their calming music, save points, and storage boxes. Resident Evil 7 takes a bold step with the new first-person perspective, but adjusting to it takes no time at all and youre quickly thrown into pleasantly familiar territory.
Upgrades can be freed from cages upon collecting hidden antique coins.
At no point did I miss the traditional perspective and tank controls. This doesnt play like a first-person shooter, it plays like a Resident Evil game that happens to be in first-person. Ammo is sparse, so youll have to make tough decisions regarding when to use it. When I decided to bring the guns out, I kicked myself for every missed shot. Not only are bullets a valuable commodity, but death can come quickly when youre reloading during a tense enemy encounter or boss fight.

Of course, another big change comes along with the shift to first-person. If youre playing on PlayStation 4 and have a PSVR headset, Resident Evil 7 marks one of the first major game franchises to feature full VR compatibility. I played the first several hours of the game exclusively in VR, and it really does add a lot to the scare factor. During those Amnesia moments where I was hiding behind a crate or a corner, I found myself slowly peering out to see if my pursuer was heading my way. These moments can raise your heart rate when playing on a television, but the fear is more palpable when youre physically tilting your head around the corner instead of strafing with an analog stick. When one character grabbed me and wildly swung a knife at my face, I found myself tensing up as I involuntarily lurched backwards on my couch. At one point, a grotesque enemy surprised me while I was exploring a crawl space. When it popped up, I instinctively turned my head rather than look straight ahead and face the disgusting creature directly in front of me. A lot of these moments can fairly be categorized as jump scares, but I cant deny that many of them really scared the hell out of me while playing in VR.

If you have a PSVR, Id highly recommend playing at least some of the game with it (ideally, the first couple of hours). After a few hours, I decided to take the headset off and play the traditional way. The games visuals look noticeably better on a television screen, and I did prefer to comfortably sit on a couch rather than have a bulky headset and headphones on. VR in this game is a highly effective gimmick, but the additional scare factor was beaten out by overall comfort in the end. I say comfort in regards to the headset itself, as I never felt sick to my stomach or dizzy while playing on the default settings, even during my initial three-hour extended session. I appreciated the variety of options for those that want to play in VR, including the ability to change the turning degree angle of the right analog stick (the only time I felt odd was when I tested the smooth turning option). If you dont mind wearing a headset for an extended period of time, you should be able to tweak the VR settings to your liking.
Melee combat can feel a bit awkward at times.

Even the best Resident Evil games have featured frustrations, and 7 is no different. While the first-person perspective works great most of the time, navigating around the occasional boss encounter can feel a bit clunky. Some of these involve attack patterns that you need to avoid before moving in to counterattack, and the controls dont always do a great job of facilitating that kind of movement.

Ive always appreciated how bonkers Resident Evil games got with their stories, but the more straightforward narrative this time around was a nice change of pace. You'll be able to follow the entirety of the story even without any previous knowledge of the series, as well. It stays intriguing throughout even if it ultimately leaves a few questions unanswered. Only one area near the end of the game seems like it drags a bit, feeling more like a solid DLC side story than a part of the main campaign.

These complaints did little to dampen my enjoyment of the overall experience. I had been underwhelmed by the brief looks at the game I had received prior to release, as most of those snippets involved the early portion that leads you by the hand. While that part of the game boasts its fair share of scares, the really impressive stuff is what comes once things open up. Resident Evil 7 features just the right amount of modern twists mixed into the traditional formula. It may not reach the same heights as an industry-changer like Resident Evil 4, but it certainly ranks among the best entries in the series.

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Wildlands is probably only worth caring about if you're willing to play through the game with three friends, with voice chat enabled. You should know that up front. You can, of course, enter into public matchmaking. In fact, the game constantly encourages you to do so. But in my experience, playing with strangers, without voice chat, is probably the worst way to play Ubi's new cocaine mountain simulator. Single-player's also an option, and can be fun for a time, but the three AI-controlled squadmates they give you are intensely overpowered and a little boring to use. Leaning into the multiplayer aspect is probably the only way players will feel like they're getting their money's worth here.

It's a shame, because there are elements around the edges of Wildlands that, if fleshed out more effectively, could have made for a better game. Take the story, for example. A Mexican drug cartel decides to leave home and set up shop closer to the source of its product: Bolivia. There, it creeps into multiple elements of society, turning the nation into a full-on, brazen narco-state. Your role is that of a set of four "operators," in country to work for the CIA on... a revenge mission? An undercover CIA guy is dead, and that's your flimsy entry into the story. Early on, the characters remark that they just need to get that revenge and get out before getting wrapped up in the politics of the coca trade. And then you proceed to get wrapped up in the politics of the coca trade, working with rebels to slowly dismantle the drug cartel's Bolivian branch.

The "revenge" thing more or less vanishes and there's very little story progression to speak of. You simply go into a new territory, get a video-based info dump on that region's boss, then start completing objectives and missions that put you closer to killing or capturing said boss. The ending--though I should note that there's apparently a different ending if you dismantle 100% of the cartel's operation before heading into the big confrontation with the big boss--falls flat, pre-loaded with a twist that you see coming a mile away but also one that isn't worth caring about to begin with. Wildlands is full of characters that look like they'd be interesting, but you're too busy shooting them in the face to give them time to be fleshed out. Top all that off with some very half-hearted hand-wringing over America's role in the War on Drugs and you've got a story that goes nowhere and says nothing. It puts all these pieces on the board and does absolutely nothing with them. It's a shame. It feels like something that could've been so much more.

So instead you're left with a pretty standard open-world action game with some very light tactical elements to help remind you that it still says "Tom Clancy's" somewhere on the box. It's packed with real-world guns and attachments for said guns. You have a drone that you can use to mark targets. Your character isn't particularly resilient, so stealth is a smart way to proceed. But it's also an open-world where you're driving cars from point A to point B, filling the map full of the same small set of side quests as you go, and the whole thing feels more like a plain, multiplayer-focused take on the Far Cry formula. The open world doesn't feel fun to navigate, since huge mountains lead to a lot of slow roads that swerve and bend around to let you slowly make your way up to the top. This also means that driving over the edge might set you back quite a bit, inspiring safe driving... always a thrill in an open-world game. You're usually better off stealing a chopper and parachuting onto your destination.


The act of clearing out a region is more or less the same from start to finish. You get to a region, get a quick video about what role that region plays in the cartel's operation, then your map gets a few "major intel" folders on it. Each folder unlocks one of the area's first few missions, though once you've completed a couple of those and start getting closer to drawing out the boss of an area, the missions start chaining together. You'll also find minor intel along the way, and this fills up the map with side activities. The catch is that each region has the same set of side activities, so you'll be offered way too many opportunities to defend a radio transmitter, hack a computer, tag supplies, and so on. By the second region, the game already feels overly repetitive. Again, this is something that the story could have helped with, since there's a colorful cast of characters hinted at along the way. But few of the region boss missions pay off.

So that leaves us with, again, a pretty standard open-world game. It's not bad. The shooting feels fine and there's a decent variety of weapons, though considering how easily players are dropped by enemy fire, short range weapons like shotguns and SMGs feel like more risk than reward. Alone, this leads to a slow-moving game where you might just use the drone to mark targets and let your AI crew quietly gun down one base after another. It gets a little monotonous, but at the same time there's something neat about the "tactical" approach to enemy management feeling so, so overpowered against a bunch of ragtag cartel idiots. The catch is that the game doesn't ever get more difficult, so you can trudge through the vast majority of the game this way. I decided to play a lot of the game this way, which is a good way to have a low amount of fun while checking off missions and stacking up skill points and levels. Some of those skills made the multiplayer more enjoyable in turn.

The multiplayer feels rough because your character isn't resilient at all, so having three way-too-murderous AI companions with you almost feels like cheating. Multiplayer takes those companions away from you and replaces them with human players. Though the game gives you some ways to direct players to the same objective, like fast travel and map marking, the in-game communication tools aren't especially effective. Jumping into random games felt like four players off doing their own things at times, though without the benefit of having your AI crew along as backup. Bring together an agreeable bunch of players that you might like to communicate with, and the game ends up being more enjoyable... though some of that is almost certainly due to the idea that playing anything with friends leads to a better time. The game itself still feels a little flat, but since you're going to be shooting enemies and shooting the shit with your friends, you'll probably just skip the boring cutscenes and get on with it. Rolling around the map, plowing through missions together is actually a pretty decent time. The stakes feel a little higher, since you can't fall back on your invincible crew of murderers whenever things go wrong. And unlike your AI friends, your real-life friends can mess up and break stealth. The game feels little short on weird, open-world hijinks, but if you like taking over Far Cry-like outposts with a team of friends... well, that's pretty much this entire game.


Wildlands looks fine, though in reviewing the game on a PlayStation 4 Pro, there seem to be a few too many instances of textures, foliage, and other world details just popping back and forth between different levels of quality, which is distracting. The character models don't look great, but the game does generate some nice-looking vistas and it has good lighting to back that up. The audio is a real low point. The radio is repetitive and lame and the chatter from your four-person team sounds like someone forgot to replace it with the "real" voicework. A bunch of weak reads on ridiculous lines is funny at first, but the millionth time your shooter just calmly utters "shitballs" because you're getting shot at might be enough for you to just turn the whole game down. A better script would've gone a long way.

Ultimately, that's Wildlands' main issue. There's a pretty decent core to it, but everything from the monotonous mission design to the way the characters are introduced and immediately discarded to the lame audio to the overpowered AI just chips away at different parts of the game until you're left with a game that's probably only enjoyable if you're playing with friends and ignoring large parts of the world building and lore. If "shoot first, ask nothing later" is your style, you'll probably have a pretty good time. It's a dumb game with decent combat and effective co-op. But the game isn't good enough to recommend to anyone in any other situation. If you like playing alone, I'd recommend you look somewhere else.


Nintendo has never introduced a true disaster to their core Legend of Zelda series, but most of the last ten years has felt lacking in inspiration. Games like Skyward Sword and Spirit Tracks were perfectly solid on their own merits, yet they paled in comparison to the more impactful entries from the series past. Attempts at freshening up the franchise usually came in the form of touch- or motion-based experiments, while the format of the games still riffed on established concepts dating as far back as the Super Nintendo. One major exception was 2013s A Link Between Worlds (which was based on that same Super Nintendo game, ironically). With that 3DS installment, Nintendo finally made some bold changes to the series aging format. Tweaking the item system and allowing players to choose dungeon order proved to be a shot in the arm for a franchise that had long rested on its tried-and-true trademarks.

If A Link Between Worlds was the game that dared to change things up, Breath of the Wild is the game that blows everything wide open. It deems no rule sacred, removing or changing numerous systems weve come to expect from the franchise. The end result is a total reinvention of Zelda that manages to evoke the exact same feelings that made it iconic to begin with.

One of the most welcome changes is almost immediately apparent. While the past two console entries (Skyward Sword and Twilight Princess) had painfully long introductory sequences, this swings hard in the other direction. Link wakes up, briefly talks to a mysterious old man, and is exploring an open world and solving puzzles within minutes. Its essentially the difference between talk to everyone on this sky island for six hours and Its dangerous to go alone! Take this.
You'll get plenty of use out of your core abilities.
You'll get plenty of use out of your core abilities.

Your first order of business is to visit four mini-dungeons so that you can acquire four runes. These runes grant you the ability to create remote bombs, manipulate magnetic objects, stop time, and create pillars of ice in pools of water. Once youve proven that you know how to wield these powers, youre given a paraglider that allows you to leave the opening plateau and experience the rest of Hyrule.

I was initially skeptical of this approach. In the past, a big part of the Zelda experience was obtaining new items within its dungeons. I was worried that by giving me powers upfront instead of doling them out in dungeons, the game would be taking away the joy of obtaining a new tool. In earlier games, youd get something like the hookshot and realize that you could now cross that broken bridge or get on top of that plateau. Breath of the Wild replaces that joy with a much more substantial sense of freedom and possibility. Youre not waiting for an item in a treasure chest to let you get across that bridge or onto that plateau. You already have all the tools you need, its just a matter of making it happen.

With just these four abilities, youre able to solve any of the games 100-plus shrines. Youre also able to explore almost all of the massive Hyrule map using just your paraglider and climbing ability. By giving you all of this upfront, Breath of the Wild is essentially saying Here you go, have fun and setting you loose. Upgrades to your stamina and gear certainly make climbing and traversal quicker and easier, but I was able to get just about anywhere I wanted with enough patience and planning.
Prepare to nervously stare at your stamina circle a lot.
Prepare to nervously stare at your stamina circle a lot.

Plenty of open world games allow you to explore the entire map at your leisure, but Hyrules landscape and Links ability to climb makes for more rewarding exploration than Ive ever seen in the genre. Most of the world isnt accessible by easy-to-follow roads and waypoints. I spent many hours exploring off the beaten path, gliding across canyons, and scaling mountains. Some of these peaks seem insurmountable at first, but the summit can usually be reached if youre smart about looking for places to rest and get a quick stamina recharge. When things go wrong, it often ends with Link ragdolling down the side of a rocky cliff. When they go right, theres frequently a secret, a new vantage point for spotting shrines, or at least a beautiful view awaiting you.
Climb these. All of them.
Climb these. All of them.

One thing you'll be climbing an awful lot of is towers. Each area of the map features one orange tower, and scaling it will turn it blue and fill in details for the region on your map. Unlike many open world games, filling it in doesn't mean it gives you the location of shrines, towns, and other points of interest. It simply gives you the outlines of major landmasses and bodies of water. Even small details like a hot spring won't be labelled until you're basically dipping Link's toes in it. Whenever you spot something that you think you might want to return to, it's easy to mark it on the map with a variety of icons. I found this to be extremely helpful for marking shrines that I spotted in the distance, areas that required arrows when I had none, mineral-rich mountainsides, and mysterious creatures and pieces of the environment that I wanted to investigate later.

It doesnt feel like the map is huge for the sake of being huge. While there are stretches of unpopulated land, I never felt like I was at a loss for things to do. There are plenty of shrines to locate, wildlife to photograph and hunt, minerals and food to collect, friendly characters to help, and camps of enemies to battle and loot. One of my favorite things that happened frequently was finding myself out of my league. Since I spent so many of my early hours exploring the world, Id inevitably wander into areas that I was not properly equipped for. Rather than running from these higher-level enemies, I saw them as a challenge. With no items being gated behind dungeons, I knew that the tools to beat these enemies were already at my disposal, even if any one of their attacks could wipe me out instantaneously. Taking out a Lynel late in the game feels like an accomplishment. Slaying one when I only had five heart containers felt like a triumph.
Throw some Lizalfos Horns in with those Molduga Guts, and baby...you got a stew goin'!
Throw some Lizalfos Horns in with those Molduga Guts, and baby...you got a stew goin'!

Your challenges wont always come in the form of high-level enemies. My adventures off the beaten path sometimes came to an end when I found myself in the freezing cold without proper gear. Link would shiver and take damage until I had to teleport to safer ground and rethink my approach. Before you find new gear that helps you combat weather, you can fight the elements by cooking. Its an imprecise and somewhat silly system, but its fun to experiment and toss a bunch of ingredients into a pot and hope for the best. You begin to learn the general formula for success after you screw up and create barely edible meals on enough occasions. If I knew I was heading into a cold region of the map, Id gain some heat resistance by mixing spicy peppers into various meat and fruit dishes. If I was about to take on a difficult enemy, Id make a few meals that utilized defense-boosting mushrooms and heart-restoring radishes.

Im glad that the cooking system isnt overly cumbersome, as its absolutely necessary. Among the sweeping changes to series tradition is the method in which you heal yourself. In almost every past entry, you could recover from a damaging battle by simply cutting some grass or breaking some pots until you found enough hearts. That option is nowhere to be found here. You can eat raw food off of the ground if youd like, but you need to cook meals if you hope to have any serious source of health recovery.
An assortment of cutscenes feature voice-over work (except for Link).
An assortment of cutscenes feature voice-over work (except for Link).

Not finding hearts in the wild is one of many seemingly minor changes that add up to make the game feel so much different than its predecessors. Rupees are rarely found in the field, as most are earned by selling materials and completing sidequests. Twilight Princess surprised me by requiring five heart pieces to make a container instead of four, but Breath of the Wild goes several steps further and omits them altogether (new hearts are earned by trading in orbs earned in shrines). Youll be snatching fairies out of the air with your hand, as bottles are gone. Boomerangs will fly right back over your head if you dont press A to catch them. Cutscenes feature voice acting. Theres a jump button.

Among the bigger changes is the optional nature and the structure of Breath of the Wilds traditional dungeons. Like theyve usually been, these are longer, puzzle-driven affairs that end in boss fights. Thats where the similarities end, however. The get the map, the compass, the big key, and the dungeon item format is completely gone. Those last three things are completely absent, and youre given a map at the very beginning of each dungeon. How you interact with the dungeons themselves is a puzzle element unique to these areas, and I dont want to spoil the specifics here.

These dungeonslike just about everything in the gameare completely optional. That said, theyre a lot of fun and will certainly make your final quest an easier ordeal. Perhaps more important than the traditional dungeons are the tiny shrines that are scattered across the map. These act as fast travel points, and youll be able to upgrade your heart or stamina capacity each time you complete four of them. Most of these are filled with traditional Zelda puzzles. Youll utilize your runes and wits to place boxes onto switches, complete electrical circuits, manipulate balancing tools, and plenty more. On occasion, theyll present you with tests of combat prowess or goofy motion-based mini-golf puzzles. If the process of getting to the shrine was particularly tough, sometimes itll simply present you with a treasure chest and send you on your way.
I never got tired of finding more of these.
I never got tired of finding more of these.

On the Switch, these shrines have the added benefit of being fantastic for portable play. This game can be a massive undertaking that benefits from long marathon sessions. On the other hand, these bite-sized shrines usually dont take much time at all. If Im on a bus and only have 20 minutes to play, I might not want to go on a lengthy quest into the wilderness. Knocking out a few shrines and upgrading my stamina is a perfectly reasonable task, however.

Most shrines feature hidden treasure chests. Frequently, these contain equipment like melee weapons, bows, or shields. I lost track of how many times Id get to one, only to be told that my inventory was full. When this happened, Id step away from the chest, cycle through what I was holding, and toss several items at my feet before grabbing my new toy. Its frustrating at times, but you thankfully can upgrade your storage capacity by collecting hidden seeds and delivering them to a specific character.
That shield is totally about to break.
That shield is totally about to break.

Another frustration comes about thanks to the weapons themselves. Almost all of them will break eventually, which can be annoying when youre trying to decide what to bring into each battle. Do you want to use your awesome lightning sword on that group of basic Bokoblins, or do you want to dispatch them with your super-slow two-handed rusty broadsword? Some may enjoy the decision-making that this forces you to do, but I usually wished I could just go in swinging with my favorite weapon without worrying about it shattering. It can be a frustrating system at times, but its remedied somewhat by the steady availability of new weapons in the field.

Breath of the Wild also has issues on the technical end. Its art style and character design are among the best Ive seen in the series, but theres no denying that the framerate takes a big hit from time to time. This is most evident in areas like dense forests and populated towns. Things usually move along at a decent clip, but youre bound to notice the game chugging if you take a stroll through Kakariko Village during a rainstorm. That said, I never felt like it interfered with combat or platforming scenarios at any point.
You'll need to be able to handle these guys if you want to make it to Ganon.
You'll need to be able to handle these guys if you want to make it to Ganon.

This can be either the shortest ormore likelythe longest Zelda game depending on how you play it. You can go for a novelty speed run and charge Ganon right out of the gate. You can put a couple of dozen hours into the adventure, beat two or three dungeons, and decide youre ready to take on the endgame. Or you could do what I did, which is spend almost 100 hours exploring the map and enhancing Links gear, health, and stamina before youre ready to see the credits.

You decide when its time to end the game. Its a great feeling, and I loved having such a defined goal throughout (Defeat Ganon is the first quest given to you). I wanted to be as powerful as possible in preparation for the climactic battle. When the time came, I felt like I was in an action movie gearing-up montage as I purchased bundles of every type of arrow, optimized my weapon inventory, put on my highest-rated gear, and cooked plenty of hearty meals. With at least 30 well-salted meat dinners lining the pockets of my fanciest armor, I breached the perimeter of Hyrule Castle and prepared to take on Ganon.

Theres great joy to be found in the big moments like this as well as the myriad little details. I laughed when lightning struck me for the first time, instantly killing Link. I asked the goofy scientist guy in Akkala to introduce himself every time I saw him, because I couldnt get enough of the little dance and sound effect that accompanied it. I was fascinated with what I found on Eventide Island, and spent over an hour making sure that I performed its unique task perfectly.


Every night, I sat on the couch and played until I genuinely couldnt stay awake any longer. Every morning, I couldnt get out of bed and turn on the Switch fast enough. Near the end, I found myself getting sad as I climbed the final towers and saw the map fill in. This Hyrule gave me such a profound sense of discovery, and I never wanted the mysteries to end. Even now, I have no idea of the purpose of numerous things that I saw. Ganon may be dead and I watched the credits roll, but I want to keep jumping back in until Ive seen everything there is to see.

This sense of wonder is something that I havent felt so strongly since I played A Link to the Past when I was seven years old. Ocarina of Time was able to capture some of that same magic in my teenage years. Now that Im in my thirties, I dont think that I expected it to be possible for a game to make me feel like that again. Ive been reviewing video games for twelve years now, and Im used to describing games in a certain way. This game controls well. This mechanic is innovative. The graphics are stunning. The skill tree feels limited. That type of language doesnt adequately convey how Breath of the Wild made me feel. Nintendo may have changed so many long-standing traditions of the Zelda franchise, but the spirit of discovery is as strong as its ever been no matter your age. I didnt think Id feel the Zelda magic this strongly ever again, but I couldn't be happier to be proven wrong.

Few opening acts scream reinvention more than Resident Evil 7s. Instead of pumping lead into zombies and creatures born of man-made viruses, the player is isolated and hunted by a deadly apparition. The series has always relied on scientific explanation for its grotesqueries, but with objects moving on their own and ghostly beings flashing in and out of reality, the introductory moments are clearly supernatural  or thats what Capcom wants you to believe. The first taste of this adventure doesnt embody Resident Evil; it feels like a new experience designed to feed off of player senses and fears in a different way. The atmosphere is tense, unsettling, overly gory, and makes for a hell of a beginning to a game, especially when you see how it all comes together.

The scares are viewed through the eyes of Ethan Winters, a middle-aged everyman summoned to a run-down estate in Dulvey, Louisiana, to search for his missing wife, Mia. The invitation comes in the form of a VHS tape showing Mia, who has been missing for three years, alive but distressed. The game roars out of the gates with a big emotional hook, as well as a high level of ambiguity as to what's happening in Dulvey.

The narrative unravels quickly, however. Ethan fades into the background, doing little to establish a connection to his world. His personality is as transparent as the specters he encounters, and he somehow remains mostly silent in the face of huge, life-altering events. Capcom may have wanted the player to react to these events instead of Ethan, but hes involved enough in the story that it feels like big chunks of dialogue and exposition are missing, especially when he verbally reacts to inconsequential things like a wall covered in millipedes, but doesnt say anything when he or people around him are in danger. The story ends up being more voyeuristic and about the people of the estate than your protagonists personal stake in it. The story flow suffers from the lack of Ethans input; I thought the game glitched out when he didnt react to a huge event in the games first hour. It turns out he just had nothing to say  no reaction whatsoever. Thankfully, Mia is a powerful force in this tale, and as we get to know her, the world also comes into shape. By the end of the game, Ethan is reduced to little more than a pair of hands holding a gun.

Much like any Resident Evil game, the adventure isnt just contained to one location, but the bulk of exploration unfolds in the estate, which belongs to the Baker family, a rowdy mishmash of personalities that range from a hillbilly father and verbally abusive mother to a comatose grandmother and a son who is as deranged as The Joker. The Bakers take center stage, and are equally important to the story as they are to re-establishing Resident Evils traditional conventions and lore. None of these characters will likely be remembered as Resident Evil greats, but they are interesting in their own disturbing ways. The threat they pose is greater than their personalities. The powers they wield are also interesting, and they are constant threats. Much like the Nemesis from Resident Evil 3, these characters appear over and over again, even when you least expect them. Don't trust walls; they crumble easily in this world.

The opening act, while powerful and different, is a smokescreen of sorts that gives way to an experience that draws heavily from the original PlayStation 1 Resident Evil titles. Navigating the estate begins with jump scares, but eventually gives way to one locked door after another. The act of opening doors may not sound like much fun, but the exploration and gameplay that leads to the securing of items is rarely mundane or repetitive. I had fun with most environmental navigation, even if some of it is ludicrous in design.

In classic Resident Evil fashion, the house's architecture doesnt make a lick of sense. The player is forced to hunt down keys, find animal-shaped objects to insert into mechanical devices, and scour the environment high and low to find healing items and ammo. You even find yourself thinking long and hard about inventory management every step of the way, questioning when to bring extra firepower, healing items, or that damn crank that somehow makes it into every Resident Evil game. Again, this sounds tedious, but it isnt. It just makes you nervous about your odds and readiness for the next step of the game.

The discovery process is excellently crafted, as is the house, and the switch to a first-person perspective allows Capcom to make finding items more interesting, as an object of interest may be obscured from view at certain angles. Part of the fun of the house is getting to know the Bakers from their possessions and hobbies. The weirdest bit of fiction is Capcom insisting the player should know the Bakers love football, not just from references in the house, but by turning bobblehead football players into one of the games collectibles. Its always jarring to see a vibrant, purple bobblehead toy sitting in a room full of gore.

Ghostly events occur periodically in the second act, which is the bulk of the game, but the focus is more on exploration and combat. I wont spoil exactly what you are doing, but a steady hand with a pistol is a necessity for headshots, as is the wherewithal to know when to bring out more powerful firearms like a shotgun or grenade launcher. The enemies are nicely varied, as are the bosses, which require different strategies and are usually spectacular in appearance. Dont expect combat every step of the way; you fire fewer shots in this game than any other Resident Evil. That shouldnt be taken as a complaint, however. The gunplay is nicely polished and fits well into the context of the world. Only one combat-based encounter is problematic, mostly because progress isn't clearly communicated. All you know is you have a chainsaw, and it cuts flesh, but it doesn't get the job done quickly. This fight led to several "game over" screens as I searched for solutions.

Capcom fills any lulls in the action with interesting gameplay deviations and scenario designs, such as stealth sequences where you have to avoid a Baker, or enemies populating previously explored areas. When you are low on ammo, seeing an enemy in an area you thought was safe ups the intensity damatically. You can tell a lot of thought went into balancing this adventure, both to be challenging and fair. Save points are littered liberally throughout the house, and checkpoints are also offered so little progress is ever lost. This is one of those games where progress is always rewarded with new things to see or do, whether thats something small like the discovery of walls coated in mold or a big development like playing as a different character for stretches of the game.

Any concerns I had of Capcom deviating too far from Resident Evils universe were wiped out by the time the credits rolled. I love how the ghost story is integrated into the series lore. Yes, this game eventually goes deep with its scientific explanations. Its a slow unveiling of information that sets up the series nicely for future installments.

Capcom has successfully reinvented Resident Evil in the past, the most notable deviation being the brilliant Resident Evil 4. This new vision doesnt reach the same heights of spectacle and gameplay innovation as that breakthrough release, but is a welcome addition to the series (both in terms of gameplay and lore), and a nice entry point for newcomers.

Horror Enhanced by VR?
The PlayStation 4 version is equipped with PlayStation VR functionality, allowing players to experience the same game from a more intimate perspective. As much as I enjoyed seeing this world up close and personal (not to mention aiming through head tracking), the VR integration is riddled with issues. Unless you play the game from a standing position to manually turn your body, your best option from the sitting position is to use set angles for turning  meaning your character turns 30 degrees each time the analog stick is tapped. Its a clunky way of moving through the world, but it likely wont make you sick. The alternative is to turn on smooth movement, which allows you to turn freely by pressing the right analog stick. This option didnt sit well with me. Every spin made my stomach churn. No variations in rotation speed alleviated the sensation that something wasnt right. Basically, play it standing, or dont play it in VR.

Tales of Berseria is the darkest Tales game, but it's also the most human. It tackles complex themes in relatable ways, like betrayal, revenge, and how pain brings out the worst in us. This makes it shine, and is a step in a right direction after coming off the disappointing Zestiria. However, Berseria still has its missteps when it comes to pacing and dungeon design. Even so, I liked the shift to a more somber tale that gave me plenty to think about during - and even after - the journey.

Berseria focuses on Velvet, a woman who has seen her share of tragedy. One devastating event sends her over the edge, beginning a deadly quest for revenge. The opening is powerful and grim, illustrating why Velvet turned into the hardened person that she is. She's not your typical Tales protagonist full of good deeds; she just wants vengeance, and most of the time she's downright cruel and cold in the process. I found this refreshing, because even when Velvet is at her worst, I still felt for her due to how well the game set up her backstory. Berseria has a lot of twists that I won't spoil, but Velvet meets other misfits and they uncover corruption as their world is overrun by demons.

While a revenge tale isn't new ground for storytelling, it still works for building up to key moments and making them relatable. Berseria is at its best when it shows the reasoning behind your allies' actions and developing them in interesting ways. For instance, watching one character who didn't have free will slowly turn into his own person is a highlight. You have a lot scenes and dialogue to shift through, and it's a slow burn, but it's worth it for how it all comes together. I wasn't even sure how I felt about the cast for the first 10 hours of the game, but the payoff is in how they grow and change.

When you're not bonding with your party, you're out on the battlefield. The action-based battle system has a lot of depth, and new wrinkles continue to be introduced well into the journey. Combat is all about exploiting enemy weaknesses and chaining combos. Everything revolves around a soul gauge, which depletes as you attack. I enjoyed strategizing around this because it forced me to make the most out of my every move. If your soul gauge is low, your attacks do less damage, are more easily defended, and leave you open to counterattacks. This means spamming the attack button is not in your best interest. You can restore the gauge by idling, or you can steal souls from enemies to refill it by stunning them, inflicting status effects, or defeating them, but beware your enemies can do the same.

This doesn't even factor in special attacks like powerful mystic artes or break souls, which have the power to extend combos and their power even when your gauge is running low. The battle system is all about making the most out of your soul gauge, and rewards you for doing so in how fast you can annihilate foes and in your loot drops. It took me a while to wrap my head around all its intricacies, but once I did, I had a blast pushing its limits. I also appreciated how easy all the special moves are to execute, and it helps that all your artes are on the face buttons.

Dungeons are still a struggle, filled with lots of boring busywork. You flip a lot of switches, break obstacles, and backtrack constantly. The environments themselves leave much to be desired, and sometimes you revisit dungeons and areas, which gets tiresome. The backtracking got on my nerves the most. You eventually get a hoverboard to quickly traverse areas, but this makes it harder to pick up items vital for crafting. In addition, you can purchase items to fast travel, but they only allow you go to certain points, which doesn't fix the problem.

About halfway through the game, you also get your own headquarters. At first, this seems cool, but Berseria doesn't do many exciting things with it. After every mission, you come back and chat with your party to plan your next move, but it settles into a boring rhythm quickly. The headquarters' layout is awful, making it inconvenient, and you're often required to go from one end to the other. You also have to battle through this area repeatedly.

As for bonus content, you have your own pirate ship, but you don't ever get to sail it yourself; you send your crew on expeditions to collect extra goodies for you like ingredients for cooking. The game also has its share of minigames and things to collect. I most enjoyed the bounty hunts and the side quests involving characters, such as one trying to get her comedy show off the ground.

Tales of Berseria does some interesting things, and is the most captivating Tales storyline in some time. I like the majority of its ideas, but the execution often feels half-realized. It still feels like the franchise isn't making big enough leaps, and is just content to bring its fans more of the same. By now, you probably know if you're okay with that. Nothing ever made me stop playing, but the flaws are impossible to ignore. 

The Double Dragon franchise was instrumental in turning brawlers into a bustling genre during the arcade era. Jimmy and Billy Lee now return decades later (once again tasked with rescuing Marian), and their journey takes them down memory lane for franchise fans with tons of foes from previous entries and a juiced-up soundtrack that brings the old tunes out with a fresh twist. If youre looking for a title drenched in nostalgia  right down to the retro graphics and mind-numbing platforming challenges  this is one you dont want to miss. But recalling your memories of Double Dragons long past may be more enjoyable than this new experience.

You punch, kick, and spin your way through missions to get to the end of story mode, which only takes a few hours if you continually need to restart levels (the game itself is much shorter). Docks, casinos, warehouses with conveyor belts, and other locales conjure up notions of the classic titles. The sounds and settings transport you back into one of those old games, right down to the signature clink of a metal bat hitting the ground. Classic opponents like Abobo, Burnov, and Linda are immediately recognizable, and there are a few new faces as well. 

The walk down memory lane is marred by the fact that its simply not fun. Double Dragon IV is a boring slog that feels like busywork with no real weight behind it, as you can continue more or less where you left off even if you run out of credits. Because theres no real progression or development beyond unlocking characters, its jarring that even games like 1989s River City Ransom give the player far more ways to customize and develop in todays world of interactive entertainment. The final battle with a new antagonist is dull, the ending is ridiculous, and the glimmer of combat fades by the third time you chuck a tire at an enemy. The A.I. often leaves enemies simply standing still waiting for you to act, or freaking out completely. I understand that these aspects can mostly be written off as part of the appeal to nostalgia, and if you are here for a ride through an interactive Double Dragon screensaver, the journey may work for you  but it certainly didnt for me. 

Once you complete the story, you unlock a mode called Tower. Tower is a one-life survival battle that pits you against all kinds of foes as you try to make the climb to the top, and is tied to character unlocks that give the game its only form of replayability and interest. Based on your performance in the Tower, you can unlock characters to play in all game modes, so you can take on story or tower mode playing as smoke-bomb popping, shuriken-tossing Ayumi, sumo wrestler Kodani, or even the larger-than-life Abobo. This is a cool addition that lets you play in different ways, but at the end of the day, youre just going through the same motions with some different sprites.

Double Dragon IV has some nostalgia value for longstanding fans of the franchise or those that just want a glimpse of what brawlers looked like in times long gone, but it offers little in terms of compelling gameplay or interesting mechanics. Im a big fan of seeing old series recapture glory, but in this case, Double Dragon is an experience better left in the past.

Whether you love it or hate it, much of the discussion surrounding IO Interactives latest installment of Hitman has been focused on its episodic format. The decision to split the experience into individual levels and sell them piecemeal was a major focus (and criticism) in my review of Episode 1, and the slow drip feed of offerings since then ultimately led us to wait until the entire season was released before taking another critical look at the game. That time has come with the release of the final episode, and while playing through all six missions together does indeed offer a better experience, Agent 47s latest outing fails to live up to his greatest hits. 

Whether youre just now jumping into the full game or have been playing every episode as they release, Hitmans story doesnt offer much to get excited about. Aside from a few flashbacks that reveal how Agent 47 met his longtime handler Diana Burnwood, the sparse narrative tries (and fails) to convey a vast, twist-laden conspiracy in a handful of short, rendered clips. The mystery of who is behind Hitmans disparate missions doesnt materialize into anything meaningful, leaving you six big sandboxes to experiment in as you replay the story missions and sample the side content.

Unfortunately, the locations are too big for their own good. Like previous games, the new Hitman offers up a bevy of creative opportunities to snuff your targets. However, the enormous areas exacerbate all of the series weaknesses. Pulling off an elaborate kill means learning the layout of a labyrinthine environment, finding the necessary items for your scheme (which is now like finding a specific needle in a stack of needles), figuring out guard routes, acquiring the right disguises, and oftentimes maneuvering your target into the correct location by completing some inane secondary objective. Its an inordinate amount of prep work for a series that already demands a lot of patience. 

The end result is you probably wont stumble upon creative executions organically like the old games, and even if you do, youre likely to miss a key component. In the Bangkok level, my attempts to kill a high-profile rockstar fell apart at the 11th hour. After obtaining multiple disguises to sneak past the hotels guards, infiltrate the bands penthouse, and poison the doomed musicians birthday cake, I found out my target wouldnt even come down to the room to try the celebratory dessert because it was missing a topper. To get it would mean sneaking all the way back down to the ground floor, swapping disguises yet again, and then finding the actual object among the sprawling maze of kitchens and storage rooms. 

The solution (besides just shooting him in the head) is to use the track opportunity function, which is basically a Hitman for Dummies guide that leads you through each assassination option step by step. The system works fine, but it also strips Agent 47 of his agency, and diminishes some of the magic the series is built on. Either you accept the guided tour or you waste a lot more time trying to find everything yourself. Either way, the thrill of discovery takes a hit.

Hitmans later episodes only become more unforgiving. IO Interactive isnt afraid to ratchet up the difficulty by loading environments with eagle-eyed foes. Episode 5 tasks 47 with taking out four targets on a militia training camp in Colorado, which means every NPC is armed and on the lookout for intruders. Episode 6 takes place inside a high-tech spa where every door is electronically locked based on your disguise, leaving you with few places to hide. I appreciate new wrinkles and challenges being introduced to Hitmans gameplay, but they all result in more trial and error, which can quickly cross the line into frustration.

The gameplay also suffers from more ambiguity. As in Absolution, Some NPCs can see through your disguises, but you wont know which ones until youre wearing it. In the Marrakesh level, I jumped through numerous hoops to obtain a guard uniform, only to find out it had no effect on the majority of identically dressed guards in the embassy. Some wonky A.I. behavior also makes it hard to tell when NPCs will notice you or respond with force; performing the same actions on multiple attempts sometimes result in different outcomes. Rolling with the punches has always been part of the Hitman formula, but the longer the missions are, the more of a problem unpredictability becomes. I used to revel in trying to achieve the perfect hit and the coveted Silent Assassin rating that comes along with it. Now most missions are a slog just to get through, and I feel less inclined to repeat them.

While the six main missions still contain some classic Hitman moments, the bonus content is less compelling. Outside of the PS4-exclusive Sarajevo Six missions, Hitmans other missions all revolve around killing random NPCs in less creative and more repetitive ways. This includes the Escalation missions, which task you with redoing the same assassination five times in a row with increasingly complex parameters. I enjoyed some of the extra content, but not enough to keep me consistently coming back. On the bright side, IO Interactive has finally added search options for user-created Contracts, making it much easier to share custom missions with your friends and find content you're interested in.

Unfortunately, some of Hitmans other shortcomings have remained over the year-long release schedule. Diving back in, I forgot just how crippled the game is if youre not online  lose your Internet connection while playing, and you also lose all the secondary missions, unlocked weapons and gear, bonuses challenges, and even your in-game stats. I also ran into some slow-loading texture problems, which rendered Hitmans iconic barcode tattoo into an inky smudge for minutes at a time, along with other textures in the environment. IO Interactive continues to rely on the same small pool of voice actors for NPCs, whose lame banter about politics, economics, and philosophy will make you wish everyone was on your hit list.

Agent 47s ultimate skill has always been patience, and the newest Hitman demands the same from the player more than ever before. Some may enjoy devoting hours to planning and pulling off the perfect hit, but the supersized levels have made 47s latest adventure an overly drawn-out affair, above and beyond the initial episodic release schedule.

Memoranda is an intriguing point-and-click game that teeters between familiarity and fantasy. You spend your time talking to animal/human hybrids and exploring surreal areas, including a dream world. Playing as a young woman who has forgotten her name, you set out on an indirect (and at times confusing) adventure to retrieve her lost memory. Although Memoranda paints a beautiful world with colorful characters, it fails to maintain interest with its vague narrative and obtuse puzzle design. 

Memoranda takes place in a town of bizarre happenings; an elephant escapes from the zoo and a human-like feline sings opera in an alleyway. The protagonist is a profoundly boring character who finds herself in fantastical scenarios, from aiding desperate magical creatures to helping a ghostly WWII veteran reconcile with his past. Unfortunately, the main character is the least interesting person in this story, and I rarely felt attached to helping her achieve her goal when I already felt disconnected to the main narrative.

Many puzzles require ridiculous leaps of reason or sheer luck in order to be solved. This is the fault of many point-and-click games, but Memorandas flaws are reminiscent of my worst experiences with the genre (like the infamous inflatable rubber duck puzzle in The Longest Journey). Often, I was combining irrelevant objects or relying on trial and error to progress. Solving these illogical puzzles is frustrating, and the laborious process doesnt feel satisfying when you finally arrive at the solution. 

Subtle hints can be found in spoken dialogue or by keeping a keen eye of your surroundings, and moments like these are when Memoranda is at its best. The biggest problem is that too many puzzles are illogical, which makes them more tedious than fun. Even during my second playthrough, Id get stuck briefly because I couldnt remember who to speak to or what item to look at in order to open up the next area. 

Certain puzzles, such as figuring out the correct combination of knocks to gain entry to an apartment, include a few hints. This hint system greatly improves the experience, and without it, some puzzles would be nearly impossible to solve. While I appreciate the help, the hints dont improve the puzzles themselves; they just allowed me to reach the next badly designed puzzle, making the experience all that more disappointing.

Bugs also halted my progress. At one point, when I was clearly solving a puzzle, the game didnt allow me to continue further, meaning I had to reload a previous save. The game crashed frequently as well.

Unfortunately, Memorandas story isnt strong enough to balance out the flawed design. I enjoyed meeting the cast of quirky characters, from a scarecrow that used to be a phoenix to hundreds of frogs telling me about their ancestors battle against a giant worm, but their connection to the plot is flimsy. The main story never hits much of a climax, and youre left with an underwhelming conclusion that fails to offer a satisfying explanation. Ultimately, the tale feels like a collection of folklore shorts rather than a coherent narrative. That would be fine if it were intentional, but Memoranda clearly wants to tell an overarching story  it just comes across as muddled. 

Memoranda has a charming aesthetic and an alluring atmospheric soundtrack, but narrative shortcomings and its flawed puzzles make it a frustrating experience. While its world is interesting at a glance, the game quickly loses its luster as the narrative becomes as directionless as its puzzle design. 

Yoshis Woolly World is the best Yoshis Island game since the original released for Super Nintendo in 1995. Seeing its gameplay on a different platform seemed entirely possible, but the Wii U version took full advantage of the consoles HD visuals which made a port to the 3DS suspect. Thankfully, despite the small visual downgrade, Woolly World is still a great platformer, even on 3DS.

In a broad sense, Woolly World is unchanged from the Wii U version. Small things  like a different layout for the overworld  are present, but all the levels, controls, and general charm of a Nintendo platformer in a world made of yarn is all here on 3DS. It still looks great, too, and if youre playing on New 3DS the framerate boosts to 60 FPS, making it a smoother experience.

Additions for Poochy & Yoshis Woolly World include a new auto-running mode starring Poochy and changes to mellow mode. Poochys auto-running levels are fun and give you a chance to collect gems, or complete missions like collecting certain items as you speed-run, or making sure you duck under that log. I like these new levels, but as a returning Woolly World fan, I would have liked to access them faster and without having to replay the campaign.

Mellow mode, which is geared toward younger players, gives Yoshi wings and lets him fly through levels. On 3DS, a collection of Poochy Pups now follow Yoshi to help find secrets and can be used as yarn balls so you never run out of throwable items. The pups are cute, and a mode that lets my young daughter (who hasnt mastered platforming yet) enjoy the cute visuals without getting frustrated is welcome.

Co-op mode, a destination for many in the Wii U version, is gone for 3DS, but I didnt miss it. On Wii U, Woolly World functioned better as a single-player game. The Yoshis are large character models, and placing more than one on the screen could sometimes get claustrophobic.

If you skipped Woolly World on Wii U, Poochy & Yoshis Woolly World offers what is essentially a straight port. It doesnt feel downgraded, even if the visuals arent quite as sharp. Exchanging co-op for the dedicated Poochy auto-run levels and a better mellow mode is a worthy trade. Woolly World is still the best Yoshis Island game since the original, even on this less-powerful platform.

Nioh borrows heavily from other games that have inspired it, like Dark Souls and Diablo. Despite the foundation coming from familiar stock, the title manages to differentiate itself with complex combat, a mission system that fosters replayability, and creative customization. Pushing the player into extremely challenging encounters and environments creates immeasurable tension and stress, which can lead to sincere satisfaction and rich rewards for those with the tenacity to carry on through demon-infested lands. 

Nioh tracks the story of William, a Westerner who fate brings to feudal Japan. Demons and corruption run rampant in this twisted historical interpretation. It mixes characters from antiquity and murderous mythological monsters, and the combination works well as an outrageous backdrop. Numerous cutscenes tell a mostly incomprehensible story that only gets interesting at the end, but some interspersed and stylish vignettes that tell short character tales work much better to break up the action.

Make no mistake, however  the core of Nioh is action. Unflinching, merciless action thats fast, fluid, responsive, and precise. Attempting to button-mash your way to a win inevitably sends you packing to the checkpoint. You must learn at least one of many other mechanics at your disposal like swapping stances, blocking, parrying, ki pulsing, and dodging. Many of these can be chained together to make battle a highly choreographed dance of death thats breathtaking to behold. Niohs combat is rich and rewarding, featuring on-the-fly flexibility and adaptation to dazzle your opponents (and yourself) with complex strings of abilities.

Just about every opponent you face can be deadly, but the stronger-than-normal Yokai command fear. You learn respect the first time a one-eyed giant lifts you up and pounds you into the earth, or when a Tengu appears from the sky to lift you away. The pacing of these terrifying creatures and their appearances is amazingly well done  just when you think youve finally figured out how to tackle a certain type of monster, a new, more difficult one is introduced to the family. However, even the Yokai are overshadowed by many of the boss encounters. These clashes run the gamut from forgettable to inspired, with many featuring bizarre or terrifying opponents, from a wisecracking smoking frog to an epic final boss fight that delivers in grandiosity, spectacle, and pressure.

While the combat and enemies are the omnipresent highlights of the game, the same cannot be said for the environments. Despite a few great locales, the overall scenery looks too much the same, with area recycling and repurposing. The environments also represent a real hazard to the player almost all the time. With pits of poison, trap doors, spike pits, rolling boulders, and roof spiders waiting to pounce, death waits around every corner  and dying simply because you couldnt see it coming is frustrating. While you begin to check around every corner for the inevitable ambush and groan because every single room has a ranged bomb-thrower or cannon-sniper, some of the labyrinthine castles and dungeons are overly sadistic in their construction, as if a cackling developer is quietly watching and snickering as bats fly out of a cave, throwing you off a cliff.

Nioh is a difficult, challenging, intense game. However, some features can take the edge off, even if you are a casual player looking to get into the world of samurai. The loot system, which I was originally pretty skeptical about, is great. Loot is randomized to some extent and can drop in several color-coded rarities. You can then further customize and create loot from acquired materials at the blacksmith to craft items with the perfect modifiers and qualities that youre looking for. You still cant button-mash a boss down with your creations, but they help give you a fighting chance.

If you cant find what you want, go knock out some side missions. Lots of them! Nioh is not a vast open world or a direct line from the beginning to the end but a series of missions, many of which are optional for players to go grab special items and farm loot, currency, and experience. You can repeat content as many times as you like, so if that boss youre currently fighting is really roughing you up, take a breather and go get yourself a couple of backpacks of loot. Side missions are often a lot more fun and a lot less stressful than the main missions, involve fewer environmental death traps, and take only a few minutes with substantially less risk.

Along those lines, an assortment of other side activities are available for players, from the souped-up Twilight missions that let players take on much harder versions of previously completed content to a new game+ filled with new loot and new challenges. The story campaign took me around 40 hours to beat, and I feel like Ive barely made a dent in everything Nioh has to offer.

Multiplayer features several types of online play, all which are fun and can be quite helpful if youre having trouble tackling a boss. You can summon random people to help, play with friends, or even engage in a different game mode altogether in the Yokai realm  a sort of tuned-up version that lets players work together to tackle a different kind of challenge than a standard mission. Joining and helping another person offers essentially free resources at no risk, allowing you to stockpile currency that can be spent for gear, custom character skins, and emotes.

Nioh will break you down (and note this clearly, this is an uncompromising game that does not mind crushing your dreams) before it lifts you up, but you soon crave the thrill of mastering a new weapon or toppling a titanic boss. Endless optimization and customization, engaging encounters, and unparalleled combat by yourself or with a friend make Nioh an excellent choice for your next dark action/RPG.

Fire Emblem Heroes marks the latest push from Nintendo in the mobile market, with the strategy series following in the footsteps of both Pokmon Go and Super Mario Run. The mobile version of Fire Emblem still plays mostly like a version of Fire Emblem youd load up on your 3DS, with a tile battlefield and a turn-based system. You pit your units against an opposing army, and the side left standing at the end wins. However, certain features from the modern series are missing here, and a pesky free-to-play mechanic puts a cap on your entertainment returns unless youre willing to pay.

At first glance, Fire Emblem Heroes seems meaty. A surprisingly lengthy story campaign exists as a tutorial mode and an excuse for you to fight against fan-favorites from the series, like Chrom from Awakening and Takumi from Fates. Its not well-written, even by Fire Emblems clunky standards, but it does its job well enough, getting you from battle to battle quickly and giving you a villain to go up against.

Intelligent Systems has a done a fantastic job boiling down the complicated tactical elements from the series into something lightning fast and enjoyable. Battles in the main franchise can take up to an hour to finish, depending on various factors. In Heroes, everything is simplified. Your armies have fewer units, maps are smaller, and elimination of the other team is the only objective. The tradeoff here is that Heroes isnt as rich or challenging as the main entries, often being weighted in favor of the player (especially if youre lucky enough to draw a couple of strong characters). This simplicity doesnt provide the depth fans may expect, but it allows you to complete matches while youre standing in line or killing time.

Other defining traits of the series are absent in Heroes. Permadeath isnt an option; if your characters die in battle, they arent gone forever. The romantic elements of both Awakening and Fates arent here either. Your characters will often make sultry or witty remarks but you cant pair them with other party members to produce children. Its hard not be a little disappointed to be playing a Fire Emblem game that lacks those two popular features.

Despite missing features many fans would consider essential qualities of a Fire Emblem game, Heroes is a fun time with an enjoyable gameplay loop. You fight battles to earn orbs that you can then use to upgrade your castle, which affects how much experience your units earn, and summon new characters to fight for your army. Spending five orbs gets you a random hero, and there is excitement as you anticipate seeing whatever character youve unlocked. Unfortunately, this has diminishing returns as duplicates are in play, and the more heroes you unlock, the more likely you are to nab a character you already have.

To make matters worse, a stamina bar is tied to your game. A full stamina bar is worth 50 points. Early on, battles require two points but as the game goes on, the stamina cost goes up. It takes five minutes to regenerate a single point, which means its easy to run that bar down to zero in a short period of time, leaving you unable to play unless you use a stamina potion or spend an orb to regenerate the bar fully. Stamina potions can be gifted to you and orbs are won in battle, but orbs are also your currency for unlocking characters, so Heroes is unsubtly trying to strong arm you into buying orbs with real currency in order to keep the stamina up. Its a dubious-bordering-on-insidious system that only gets worse as the game goes on, since orbs are harder to find and you commonly draw duplicates. The stamina bar is a huge drain on Heroes playability, especially in the later stages; I would gladly pay for a full version of the game to eliminate the mechanic altogether.

About 10 hours in, I hit a wall where I just wasnt having fun battling or drawing characters anymore. Still, thats 10 hours of entertainment as well as a solid foundation here for something more grand in the coming months if Intelligent Systems takes the initiative and adds more features (like permadeath in the campaign). For now, Fire Emblem Heroes is a flawed but enjoyable way to pass the time for fans as well as a solid starting point for anyone whos been curious about the series but hasnt dived in yet.

Finding a spot with a great view of the battlefield, staring down the scope of your rifle, and taking out your enemies before they even know what hit them is a thrilling moment in any shooter. With the fourth entry of Sniper Elite, a franchise built on delivering on that feeling, developer Rebellion has created a well-rounded and empowering sandbox shooter.

Sniper Elite 4 puts you in control of Karl Fairburne, the heroic sniper from the past entries. This time, Fairburnes adventures take him to Italy to assist the resistance forces. The campaign, which consists of eight lengthy missions, deploys you to a large open area with little more than your loadout and a map marked with objectives. While each mission has a few primary missions that must be completed, the map is littered with meaningful secondary objectives, such as taking out a pesky sniper, destroying artillery, or swiping classified Nazi documents. These goals are all on the way to your primary targets. Because of this, I love planning out my route at the start of each mission.

Sniping is unsurprisingly the main gameplay pillar in Sniper Elite 4, and it feels great. The cycle of marking enemies with my binoculars, breaking out my rifle, holding my breath to steady my shot, and firing never ceases to satisfy. Though I rarely prefer sniping in other shooters, it is my go-to method of attack in Sniper Elite 4. Picking enemies off one-by-one is not only efficient, but landing a successful shot feels great. I also reveled in watching the cinematic x-ray cam during killing blows.

These slow-motion x-ray shots are a mainstay of the series for good reason. Each time I let off a shot from my sniper rifle, I anticipated witnessing the carnage I was unleashing. Whether youre blowing out an infantrymans eye on the way to blasting out his brain or puncturing an officers lung, the level of detail in these brief moments is impressively depicted for those who dont mind the gore of a slow-motion kill. While the novelty began to wear on me by the end of the campaign, I was still disappointed each time I scored a headshot and the kill-cam didnt activate. 

While sniping is the main draw, Fairburne has plenty of other options at his disposal. From trip-mines and TNT that blow enemies to smithereens to rocks and whistles that stealthily lure enemies, Sniper Elite 4 empowers players to approach each mission how they want. While being stealthy has serious advantages at times, if you set yourself up with trip-mines and a lot of secondary weapon ammo, there are few situations you cant fight your way out of. Because the SMGs, shotguns, and pistols are fun and easy to use, I didnt mind getting my hands dirty and taking the fight up close. When each goodhearted stealth attempt inevitably ended with my cover being blown and hordes of enemies descending on me, I took comfort that I had access to these effective secondary weapons.

Gone is the relocation meter of Sniper Elite 3 that gave you a set amount of noise you could make before enemies knew where you were. Instead, enemies are immediately alerted of your position when you make noise near them, and they begin searching the area or firing on your location. Because of this, masking your sound with environmental objects is crucial to remaining hidden. I like the sound-masking mechanic, but found it inconsistent at times. Things like artillery guns and overhead airplanes always drown out the sound of your rifle, but strangely, a nearby gunfight does not hide your location when you fire.

Despite some fun moments, several issues popped up over the course of my playthrough. On multiple occasions, Id take out one enemy stealthily, and then lure a second to continue to thin the herd. When I tried to stealth-kill the next foe, Fairburne picked up the dead body of the first, completely blowing my cover thanks to some buttons being responsible for too many actions. In addition, getting locked into an animation for stylish melee kills is panic-inducing, and resulted in me suffering several cheap deaths.

Thankfully, the checkpoint system is generous, often resetting to right before you encounter the enemy that killed you. While I appreciate this, it has a tendency to backfire during intense segments like being pinned down by a tank. When this happened, I either needed to restart my mission altogether (less than ideal, since missions can take between one and two hours on first attempt) or sprint away and hope the enemies miss me. The feeling of hopelessness and frustration that sprung from such situations made me thankful it didnt happen regularly.

If you ever get stuck on a mission, you have the option to drop down the difficulty, but its much more fun to call in help through the drop-in/drop-out cooperative play. This feature is available in all campaign missions, the games asymmetric sniper vs. spotter Overwatch mode, and the intense round-based survival mode. Attacking a campaign mission with a friend also significantly cuts down on the time it takes to complete these long missions, since players can split up and track separate objectives.

The competitive multiplayer suite includes unique options that capitalize on the sniping theme. On offer are the standard deathmatch and control modes, but my favorites were Distance King, where youre awarded points based on how far your kills are, and No Cross, a twist on team deathmatch where the teams are completely separate the whole time thanks to a strip in the middle. These modes are worthwhile for those who enjoy the gameplay of Sniper Elite 4, but the matches do little to contribute to any meaningful progression system, making them largely free-standing.

Sniper Elite 4 is a well-rounded experience that delivers on multiple fronts. The campaign is flexible and full of satisfying objectives, and I enjoyed jumping into missions with a friend. The unique collection of competitive multiplayer modes rounds out Sniper Elite 4, giving shooting fans a game thats worth a look despite its flaws.

A horn sounds in the distance, signaling that our army is at its breaking point. I look down at the grassy field from the relative safety of a crumbling wall. One of my comrades is clashing with a knight, doing his best to block the unrelenting swings of his opponents morning star. Two of the knights allies come, and its three against one. I could run down and help, but even then wed be outnumbered. Instead, I call in a volley of arrows. The projectiles rain down on our enemies, slaughtering them in seconds. Our ragged forces regroup, and we manage to narrowly pull a victory from what seemed like an inevitable loss. At its best, For Honor lets you live out the fantasies you had as a kid, where every stick was a blade and your backyard was a roiling battleground waiting for your swordsmanship to save the day.

For Honors setup is either supremely strange or just plain stupid: The best warriors from three different factions  knights, samurai, and vikings  have been pulled into a realm of war, where they continue to fight for 1,000 years. A campaign attempts to make sense of it all, but ultimately its an excuse to get a dozen heroes from various cultures together so they can fight to the death. I couldnt say with any confidence what exactly is ultimately going on in For Honors story, aside from the fact that these guys like to fight.

The combat system is easily the highlight, working as a solid foundation for the rest of the diverse modes. Its a 3D action/fighting hybrid that slashes its own unique path; the warriors have a variety of different weapons, including poison-tipped spears, battleaxes, and katana, but the fundamentals are the same regardless. Your hero can hold his or her weapon in three directional positions, for either attacking or defending. Switching positions is as simple as locking onto your opponent and moving the right analog stick. Add in feints, parries, block-breakers, and unique movesets, and you have a robust melee toolset.

Battles are methodical and thoughtful. Button-mashers quickly run out of stamina, leaving them vulnerable. A refreshing amount of tension comes at the start of battle, and I loved how often the initial moments of contact would consist of me and my opponent circling one another while switching stances, looking for weaknesses and openings. This kind of psychological engagement is at its best in one-on-one duels or two-on-two brawls, where youre able to focus your attention and get into your opponents head  and hopefully remove it. 

Things are more frantic in the Dominion mode, where two teams of four earn points by taking and controlling three points on a large map. Double- or triple-teaming the enemy is commonplace there, but For Honor helps even the odds by making it easier to block attacks coming from several directions and also allowing the outnumbered party to quickly fill a revenge meter. Once activated, it can knock attackers down, providing a chance for retribution or escape. Being able to endure such an onslaught, and even overcome it, is intensely satisfying, and one of my favorite things about For Honor.

Even though characters share the basics, dont expect to jump between them at ease. You need to learn each heros range, chain attacks, and various feats if you want to be effective. As silly as the story is, it does a great job letting you try out several of the different classes to see which ones best fit your playstyle. Early on, I gravitated toward the Viking Warchief, but I found his limited stamina to be a problem (even after equipping items that boosted the stat). Once I started playing as the Samurai Kensei, however, I flourished. 

As you play more with the characters, you level them up and get better gear. Thankfully, their associated stat boosts dont matter in the skill-based duels and brawls, but they can make a difference in some of the other modes. You can earn them via random drops or buy blind bundles of gear using the in-game currency, steel, which is earned in matches and daily missions. Earning steel through matches alone is a slow process, with a typical Dominion battle earning about 40. You need 500 steel to open the best bundles, and even more to purchase additional taunts, costumes, or other cosmetic items. Most of this is purely optional, but its a little gross to see more than $200 of microtransaction content laid out the first week of the games release  including the ability to fast-track your way to character feats that would take dozens of hours to otherwise unlock, or to purchase a special account status that earns you additional loot and XP.

For Honors battles can be great, but you also have to contend with the online infrastructure. In its current state, I experienced frequent disconnects and other networking issues. Players would vanish before my eyes, and the action would stutter as it replaced the missing person with an admittedly competent bot. That this happens at all is disconcerting, and more so when the screen hitches as an enemy sword is swinging at your face. Sometimes these disconnects also shatter online parties, requiring you to send another wave of invites. Ubisoft has big plans for For Honor in the months ahead, with a faction-based metagame, evolving stages, and additional characters to join the war. Hopefully, addressing these technical issues is even higher on the list of priorities, because they undermine an otherwise memorable experience.   

When everything lines up, For Honor is a brutal and rewarding game that makes you feel like an unstoppable warrior. Sure, sometimes you get kicked off a bridge (again) or your head gets lopped off, but those failures make your battlefield successes even sweeter.

After more than a decade of work on its flagship Killzone series, the sci-fi stalwarts at Guerrilla Games have made the jump from the FPS genre to the increasingly crowded open-world format. While the developer hews closely to the formula established by staple series like Assassin's Creed and Far Cry, Horizon forges its own path with a grand sci-fi tale and smart, challenging combat.

Horizon presents gamers with a classic hero's journey, albeit with a lot more robot dinosaurs. Young protagonist Aloy is consumed with unraveling the mysteries surrounding her birth, which led to her being an outcast of the matriarchal Nora tribe. This quest for knowledge intertwines with figuring out the state of their post-apocalyptic world, and the increasingly violent machines that inhabit it. Where did these beasts come from, and what happened to the ruined civilization that created them? Discovering the answers takes Aloy to every corner of the harsh and primitive world.

Just when you've mastered the basics, Horizon's massive world opens up. Aloy's first journey out west provides a remarkable sense of discovery; the new desert landscape is teeming with different, deadlier machines, along with new settlements to explore and beautiful vistas to behold. Horizon's mysteries really sink their teeth in here; while it may lack the power and meaningful choices of narrative-driven series like The Witcher and Mass Effect, Guerrilla has crafted compelling lore for its post-apocalyptic world. Unlike most open-world games, I looked forward to finding new audio logs and emails that detail the old world's collapse, and the modern-day conflicts between the isolationist Nora tribe, sun-worshipping Carja, and combative Oseram give Aloy's quest more meaning and complexity. Most importantly, Horizon isn't afraid to delve deep into heady sci-fi topics, and the myriad mysteries it sets up are all answered in a marathon of revelations and explanations toward the end of the game. Despite its flaws and foibles, Horizon's story unexpectedly became one of the major driving forces of the game for me.

In fact, my only major complaint about Horizon is how closely it clings to the established and increasingly tedious formula of open-world games. Guerrilla has excelled at crafting a gigantic and gorgeous world, but the activities that populate it feel all too familiar. You clear out bandit camps, hunt animals for inventory upgrades, and track down various collectibles that clutter your map. Every trip you undertake is disrupted by the urge to collect more crafting items (your primary source of ammo), and every exciting skirmish ends with the unexciting and ritualistic looting of enemy corpses. This necessary scrounging periodically pumped the brakes on my enthusiasm, but the story missions and action provide enough fuel to keep things moving.

Thankfully, the story-based missions make up the bulk of Horizon's adventure, and are spread across three tiers of importance: main quests that reveal more secrets from Aloy's past and the precursor civilization, side quests that follow up on narrative events and flesh out Horizon's secondary characters, and errands that Aloy can complete for other acquaintances. I was pleasantly surprised by all three tiers; the main and secondary missions especially do a great job of detailing the world and providing variety to the gameplay, whether you're sneaking through herds of patrolling enemies, or making a mad dash through massive man-versus-machine battles. Even simple errands present enough interesting twists and turns that I felt inspired to complete them  if not for the story content, then for the sizable XP rewards.

The mundane hunt for collectibles is also spiced up by Horizon's engaging combat. Stalking through bandit camps and silently scoring headshots is standard-yet-satisfying fare, but Horizon's robot dinosaurs really steal the show. Each of the 25 different species of synthetic beast features its own behaviors, attacks, and mechanical components that can be harvested or exploited during the thick of combat. Every species demands a cautious and thoughtful approach; even the weakest Watcher is capable of blinding you and calling in deadlier allies at a moment's notice. Taking on a bigger foe like the towering Thunderjaw feels like a full-fledged boss battle and requires multistage strategies like chipping off armor to expose weak points for extra damage, laying out traps to aid a hasty retreat, and tearing off powerful weapons to use against your enemy. Unlocking new skills and customizing your weapons with various mods helps even the odds, but you still have to think through every encounter, and Horizon is better for it.

I picked up a few other minor gripes along Aloy's lengthy journey, from a sketchy map system that is often more trouble than it's worth, to annoying NPCs that look like roadies for a post-apocalyptic grunge band. Aloy herself can be a real wet blanket sometimes, complaining about everything from the weather to her boots being wet. Like the need to scrounge for crafting items, these problems are small bumps that are easily forgiven and forgotten on Horizon's long and winding road.

None of Horizon's faults stopped me from sinking 55 hours into the game, or walking away supremely satisfied with the experience. Horizon may not be a revolution for the open-world genre, but it is a highly polished and compelling adventure that proves Guerrilla is more than a single franchise.

After the crew of the UNSC warship Spirit of Fire wakes up from a quarter-century cryogenic nap, they discover that humanitys war against the Covenant has ended. Stranded a galaxy from home, the crew responds to an emergency beacon only to encounter a bloodthirsty faction of the Covenant known as the Banished. Their leader  an imposing Brute named Atriox  dismantles a team of three Spartans in their first skirmish. As tensions escalate, the Spirit of Fires crew is forced to push back against these battle-hardened space gorillas and uncover the mystery at the heart of a new Forerunner installation.

Halo Wars 2s story is the most compelling aspect of Creative Assemblys console-friendly RTS. The characters depth made me want to learn more about them, and the pre-rendered cut scenes  produced by arthouse Blur  feature enough spectacle to fill a Summer blockbuster. Unfortunately, the narrative ends on a frustrating cliffhanger, which left me with uneven feelings about the story as a whole  and the rest of Halo Wars 2 is a similar mix of emotions.

Creative Assembly holds closely to the work done by Ensemble Studios on the original Halo Wars. At the center of the strategy is a classic rock-paper-scissors mechanic where air units are strong against vehicles, while ground troops are strong against air units, etc. Most of the missions boil down to capture this point or defend this position for X amount of time, but the gradual unlocking of new units prevents the campaign from feeling too repetitive.

Unfortunately, a few integral components of Halo Wars 2 feel pared down. First, most of the maps feel smaller than average. This pushes you into conflict regularly and keeps you from getting complacent, but it makes the action feel a bit cramped as a result. Base-building is also cut back. You still manage your resources, upgrades, and train troops from your base, but these buildings can only be constructed on predetermined points, which means that all your HQs essentially look the same. Since you have limited lot space, youre also restricted in the number of buildings you can construct, which forces you to make some needless sacrifices. (Read our impressions of the Xbox One version here.)

Despite those issues, I loved the elegant dance of moving the right troops across the field to take out an enemys well-fortified base. I only ran into a few hiccups, like telling my units to attack a garrisoned foe only to watch them move toward that point instead. Thankfully, issues like this are rare.

Halo Wars 2s successes and failures transfer over to the multiplayer modes, many of which feature the exact same gameplay. If youd prefer a battle of wits against a living opponent, Halo Wars 2 allows you to set up a number skirmishes where you either eradicate you opponent or battle over control of specific points.

Creative Assemblys new Blitz mode is Halo Wars 2s most exciting online offering. This mode streamlines the base building and resource management mechanics by giving players a deck of cards to use to deploy units and other special abilities anywhere on the battlefield. You earn new card packs by completing various missions or buying them in the online store. Thankfully, it seems like you can earn most of the cards without spending extra money, and I remained competitive using only cards I got in-game. This new card-based system also keeps matches short and fast-paced, and I enjoyed tinkering with my deck between each match. Blitz could be the go-to mode for anyone looking for a quick strategy fix.

I enjoyed my time with the first Halo Wars, so Im glad that Microsoft took a chance with a sequel. Unfortunately, aside from Blitz, I dont feel like Creative Assembly pushed the envelope. Simplified base building, smaller maps, and outdated level design keep Halo Wars 2 for achieving great heights. However, if you loved the first Halo Wars, this entry delivers more of the same.

Night in the Woods is about mistakes, recklessness, and friendship, all wrapped up in a colorful adventure game. You play as Mae, a 20-year-old anthropomorphic cat who drops out of college and returns to her hometown. With an emphasis on self-discovery, rebuilding old relationships, and understanding the struggles of a dead-end town, Night in the Woods is an enthralling experience that captures both the wonder of childhood and the dread of adulthood.

This narrative-driven adventure draws players in by allowing them to explore the town of Possum Springs and reconnect with Maes past. Upon her return, she begins to notice ominous happenings that tie into the ghostly folklore of the town, and soon her and a group of friends set out to find the truth. This tale unfolds gradually as players establish a daily in-game routine  interacting with friends, venturing into town, causing trouble  but Night in the Woods rewards your patience as it gradually brings the threads together.

Although the story is slow-paced, Night in the Woods shines in its smaller moments. Mae scribbles doodles in her notebook after certain events, which can be dark or hilarious. Making dubious decisions to let off steam, like breaking things with a baseball bat or knife-dueling your best friend, is childishly amusing in its recklessness. The plot also taps into complicated subject matter delicately, from dealing with issues of depression to a gay couple expressing frustration at being the only openly LGBTQ people in a small town. Ranging from heavy to irreverent, the way Night in the Woods handles a broad array of interesting situations is among its best qualities. 

Mae is particularly memorable because she is deeply flawed and complex. I chuckled often at her cynical wit, became endeared by her morbid back-and-forth jokes with her best friend Gregg, and related to her insecurities as she gives herself a pep talk in the mirror before heading to a party. While it may seem like shes pumping the brakes on her future by dropping out of college, her reasons for doing so become apparent as the story progresses. 

The natural, funny dialogue and characters evolution are more ways Night in the Woods sets itself apart. You notice subtle changes with the townsfolk from one day to the next, and hanging out with friends over time has them open up to you. Chatting online with friends uses just the right amount of abbreviations, and has a realistic flow. Dialogue options bring interactivity to conversations, but the choices mainly impact who you hang out with and which scenarios you witness. 

A number of simple-but-amusing minigames pop up through the story. Some of these include a rhythm game that occurs during band practice and shooting pierogis into a friends mouth with careful aiming. The rhythm game in particular has a Guitar Hero feel to it, which turns out to be fun and challenging as you attempt to hit the right notes in a timely manner. These quirky diversions add a degree of novelty and immersion, but arent challenging enough to interrupt your progress. 

Mae has bizarre out-of-body experiences through her dreams, which focus on exploration. In most of these dreamscapes, you platform your way through shadowy parts of town, searching for four different musicians to complete a puzzle. These are never difficult to complete, but are breathtakingly atmospheric as an eclipsed moon hangs above, and apartment windows glow in the nighttime. 

Talking to all the characters on a daily basis and revisiting locations can be tedious, but its often rewarding once you get there. I enjoyed listening to my neighbors short and strange poems, and looking for stars with a teacher on a rooftop as he explains the mythos behind different constellations in the sky. By overhearing conversations, I better understand the dismal economy of a town that no longer prospers as it did years ago, and how this affects its working-class townsfolk. 

Night in the Woods is a strange tale with an even stranger cast of characters, but it revels in its oddities. The excellent writing pulls off a realistic sense of cynicism, childlike wonder, and comradery between friends. With its careful balance between adult themes and youth, it captures a stage of life that is confusing, frightening, and thrilling. The sluggish pacing can drag, but players fill the time by building friendships and understanding the grim secrets of a town they once again call home.

Stories Untold appears to be a quiet and inconspicuous game at first. This digital anthology of horror stories is essentially a series of escape-the-room puzzles that take place in different universes, but the tales have gripping and emotional threads to connect them. The unique structure is an effective vehicle to deliver something more nuanced than bump-in-the-night thrills; you confront scenes of death, guilt, and heartbreak. However, even on a moment-by-moment level, both the scares and gameplay are satisfying.

Stories Untold is divided into four sections, and each has its own familiar theme and focus. The first level has you sitting at a desk in a suburban home on a dark night, playing a text adventure on a retro PC while the environment changes to whatever actions happen in the text adventure. Examining photos in the text adventure might lead to the family photos on your desk becoming disfigured. Answering the phone in the adventure might result in the phone in front of your desk ringing. This sort of thing might sound kind of hokey, but it successfully nails the haunted-house atmosphere its going for. The music is just right, the text adventures writing is tight, and everything leads to compelling places in both the individual story and the larger picture.

Later levels have you doing more sophisticated, challenging puzzles. The second one has you following a manual to use a series of machines, including a power drill and an X-ray, to help scientists understand a mysterious object locked away in a vault. The sheer number of things you can interact with in this level is initially overwhelming, especially when you take a look at the manual. However, Stories Untold succeeds because it does a solid job of giving you enough audio cues and textual hints to lead you down the right path without holding your hand.

Many of the solutions are obscure and require a keen eye and patience. The third story is particularly frustrating, requiring you to decode messages with Morse code and instructions hidden in microfilm. Some puzzles are more annoying than others, with vital info or mechanics being hidden away in the background of each level. That being said, every puzzle I solved left me feeling satisfied and a little proud, even if its logic was convoluted.

The atmosphere of each level is also impressive, venturing into surprising territory with varied, genre-shifting gameplay; the first games haunted-house tricks, for example, dont become the crux of the whole anthology. In one puzzle, you are sitting at a desk, examining minute details for the solution to your current obstacle. In the next, you are navigating a creepy, snowy labyrinth in first-person. Even when I was confronted by a puzzle that seemed impossible to solve, I kept on going because I wanted to see what else Stories Untold would throw at me next, and the answer was that it had something new and interesting in its pocket every step of the way, especially when it comes to the finale. The themes and plot points that run across the anthology are united in the final segment in a way that feels satisfying and surprising. Its a dark, twisted ending that packs some serious emotional power; I dont want to spoil anything, but I can say that the payoff is more than worth the effort.

Stories Untold is a unique four-hour experience that both horror fans and those who love to dissect head-scratching enigmas should check out. Though a number of frustrating puzzles may prove too tiresome for many, those who stick with it will find themselves rewarded with a treasure trove of gruesome and morbid delights. 

A good player is always lucky, the saying goes. No matter the hand dealt to them, the best players know when to push through and succeed, and Loot Rascals aims to replicate 
the feeling of surviving in spite of the odds. Facing off against a series of ever-stronger aliens and obstacles as I inched further away from my planetary outpost, a series of good decisions (and a well-arranged deck) can turn tepid luck into a fighting chance. But as often as it gave me just enough to pull through, Loot Rascals threw me into situations where I may as well have folded.

Loot Rascals is a roguelike, turn-based strategy game on a hexagonal grid that also borrows from the survival genre: A day-and-night cycle controls whether monsters attack or defend (determining who lands the first hit in combat), and if you wander around for too long, stronger monsters appear until you meet an unstoppable specter of death.

Combat is simple and quick, letting players focus more on strategy than action. When you and an enemy run into the same tile, you trade hits automatically based on your attack values. Battles take no more than a couple of seconds, but because my chief concern is how I can survive long-term, I never felt the combat needed to be more intricate. The rush of victory came from knowing Id outsmarted an enemy by pinning them down at the right time, not from watching numbers go down.

Cards dropped by monsters carry attack or defense values, and the ways you can combine these cards gives deck-building a satisfying strategy layer. Most cards have conditional modifiers based on their placement on a five-by-two grid, like a boot that only offers two defense points but boosts the card placed below it by two points. Some cards must be attached to others and offer special powers you can use while exploring, such as teleportation. Finding the optional positioning for my current cards made each run feel personal and rewarding.

But on some runs, early monsters wont drop new cards as often as they should. This is especially important in a game where monsters scale on a predictable curve. When this happens its a struggle to progress past the early parts of a level. This rarely creates impossible situations, but after several hours of play, I now know a bad run when I see it, and when to choose to cut my losses and start over instead of waiting for my luck to improve. Considering the cut-and-dried nature of combat, investing in a poor early hand is simply not worth it.

With a good lead, though, luck recedes into the background. As you get to the second, third, and fourth levels (out of five), decisions matter more, since you likely have a solid foundation to work from by then. And with no way to make permanent progress across playthroughs, the stakes of a great run ramp up more intensely than other roguelikes. Whenever I made it near the end, I carefully judged every move, trying to hold on to what might be my best shot at victory. A few times, though, I would leave one area having as strong a deck as possible, only to be dwarfed by the monsters in the next. Losses like that left me thinking the only way I could have done better was if I had gotten better cards.

Loot Rascals offers a few ways to stem the tide of chance, though. You can find rockets that let you launch a card from one playthrough to another, which can help to salvage a bad run. Similarly, when a monster kills a player, they take one or more cards. Other players can then find these cards and choose to keep them or return them to their owners. It may be tempting to keep a good card you find this way, but be warned: Holographic ghosts of players roam the world, and if you took their owners cards, they turn against you. If you were kind, they help you instead. Its an interesting choice conceptually, but I found it better to simply return every card and not deal with more enemies than I already had.

Each procedural seed also has a number attached to it, and you can replay any seed by punching it in. If you want to play one particularly bountiful seed to completion, you can. You can also turn any deck youre fond of into a practice deck, which lets you use it again but prevents you from reaching the final boss. These concepts warp the roguelike formula in fun ways, but I still frequently had runs I had little to show for, which was discouraging.

Loot Rascals introduces plenty of clever twists to turn-based strategy games. The deck-building is smart, the combat is breezy, and the strategic layer is interesting. But the combination of procedural generation and haphazard difficulty made me feel more like a victim of chance than a mastermind.

What would happen if Bruce Wayne lost everything? His company, the people around him, even his sanity  all gone. Telltale Games explores this dark scenario in New World Order, the third chapter of its episodic Batman series. Little time is wasted in destroying Bruces life, and that downward spiral is embraced in this slower paced episode. Few bullets are fired and shocking revelations are kept to a minimum, but we get to know Bruce more intimately, and the payoff is sizable. I felt like I had a hand in determining if he was sympathetic or ignorant, frail or strong, romantic or emotionally drained.

The mysterious faction called the Children of Arkham are responsible for the upheaval in Bruces life. We still dont know why they are doing this to him or what their endgame is; we just know they want Bruce to pay for the crimes his father committed decades ago. This episode repeatedly beats the drum that there is no way out for Bruce, no matter how the player reacts to a scenario  they all end poorly. The thumping of the drum just gets louder and more violent as the plot unravels.

Seeing such a prominent hero beaten down is a powerful thing to experience, but the player isnt given much time to let it soak in. Attention is frequently diverted to Harvey Dent. No matter what choice you made in a critical moment in the previous episode, Harvey becomes unhinged. Yes, its disappointing that another key Telltale plot point that originally looked like it would offer two distinct plot lines, ends up leading to the same result, just with a character looking more like a monster than human. This one moment in particular plays out strangely if Harvey isnt scarred. It just doesnt fit the character evolution.

Bruce cares deeply about Harvey, who was just sworn in as mayor from his hospital bed. The dark juxtaposition of Bruce and Harvey is intentional on Telltales part, making the player question who will become more of a monster.

The episode ends with that question dangling precariously, and in a way that again makes it look like things are only going to get worse for both characters. Just dont think too much about some of the logic; a character who steps in for Bruce is a stretch (the biggest one Telltale could make), but it works in building drama and a hell of a conflict for future episodes.

The only levity in this episode comes from an intimate moment shared between Bruce and Selina Kyle. The player is given the choice to become romantic, a scenario Telltale fumbles both in the actions offered (which make Bruce look like his libido is running on overdrive) and in the graphics. Telltales animations have always been a little crude, but seeing Selina and Bruce kiss might be the most awkward visual this company has produced. The lips dont move much, and the two character models instead intersect in a way to make it look like the game glitched out. This moment is supposed to be touching, but ends up being hysterical for all of the wrong reasons.

Outside of one great fight, New World Order is light on Batman action, and hints that we may not see the Caped Crusader at all in the next episode. It ends on a shocking cliffhanger (something Telltale continues to do well) with two huge reveals that should get Batman fans talking. The twist behind Children of Arkham is a good one that I didnt see coming. If you thought it had ties to the comic book storyline Court of Owls, keep guessing. I like where this is going.

Weve traveled throughout Daventry during the game, and the final chapter sticks close to Grahams kingdom. The locations are familiar, but theyve transformed over the years. Ive grown fond of these places in the hours Ive spent with the game, and the return trip was filled with little surprises. Graham has to navigate a tunnel that previously required a lantern; now its been overhauled with lights as part of a civic-improvement initiative. Old friends also return in various forms, and I was glad to see them again. 

Grahams always been one for embellishment, which has been one of the funniest parts of the games. Players who tried doing weird things were often rewarded with Christopher Lloyds stammering that, now that he thinks about it, that wasnt how it happened. This time, his retelling is unreliable because of his memory loss. A few puzzles center on his inability to keep his facts straight, and even though these inconsistencies are played for laughs, its sad to see our once-proud hero in this state. Some areas are blanked out, as Graham cant recall the details. And in one panic-stricken moment, he desperately tries to embellish moments from previous chapters so theyre more interesting. Gwendolyn does her best to calm Graham down and get him to tell the stories as they actually happen. The two characters have had great chemistry from the beginning, and their interactions are particularly sweet here. A storytelling handoff happens later that ties things together beautifully.

The Odd Gentlemen have done a fine job with its storytelling, though the puzzles and the ways theyve been incorporated in the tale have been inconsistent. I thought the previous chapter leaned too heavily on them, and while theyre still abundant in the conclusion, they fit well overall. Another fun escape-room style section requires careful observation and exploration. The final section is a puzzle-heavy showdown with the villain that is satisfying and interesting. The only real misstep is a retread of an earlier music-box puzzle that I had to brute force my way through, thanks to poor in-game lighting, my TVs color calibration, or something else.

This marks the last full episode of the Kings Quest season, and Im relieved that it ends on what actually feels like an ending. There have been some great treats for longtime fans throughout the previous chapters, but The Odd Gentlemen rewards that loyalty. Some players might find a couple of moments on the corny side, but without spoiling anything, I was absolutely delighted by it all. 

Im sad that this marks the end of this retelling of King Grahams adventures, but Im also excited about the seeds that have been planted. Graham and his successors will live on in our imaginations, and I think thats the kind of legacy that hed want.
A King's Quest Epilogue
Chapter 5 ends on a satisfying note, but Sierra has an epilogue in the works for those who bought the games Complete Edition. Sierra isn't sharing details on where the epilogue is set, how long of an experience it offers, or if it even includes playable content. In the meantime, The Good Knight feels like a conclusion.

King Graham has been through a lot. By the time the fifth episode starts, weve seen him avoid certain death from a dragon, claim a throne, and lose (then reunite with) a child  and those are just the highlights. These pivotal events have taken place in flashbacks, with Graham retelling the stories to his granddaughter, Gwendolyn. Along the way, weve witnessed the hero transform from a nave youth to a middle-aged ruler. In the final chapter of his story, our hero has to reconcile his determination to go on one last adventure with his fading memory and aging body. Its a bittersweet ending to the series that caps it off on a hopeful note.

We knew that King Grahams tale was drawing to a close from the outset. Hes largely bedridden when we reunite with the character, and over the course of each chapter his health has waned further. However, his magic mirror has promised one final adventure, and Grahams determined to see it through.

With the release of Xenoverse 2, Dragon Ball Z has turned into an annualized video game franchise. Following Battle of Z in 2014, we have now had three consecutive years of Dragon Ball Z games in a similar style. Like most annualized franchises, clear improvements over last years model are present, but this years installment also produces the unavoidable feeling that youve played this before.

Conton City is the biggest change, and it is the best part of Xenoverse 2. The hub world lets you explore, find unlockables, and just generally hang out. It can also be opened up to the internet where it functions as an online lobby hosting hundreds of players simultaneously, and plays out like a giant, weird Dragon Ball Z party. Tons of people are always standing around, all with their customized characters looking for party members to join them online. I spent most of my time standing in front of other players and exploring the myriad animated emotes. Conton City is where you get to see all the unlockable clothing and accessory items that function as references to the franchise, and interact with familiar characters. It fully embraces Dragon Balls silliness, and its where I had the most fun.

Despite the improved hub area, the way you pursue missions and work through the story doesnt feel radically different from Xenoverse, which is what makes it all feel so familiar. You make your way through the story, which you have played in some form or another in every Dragon Ball Z game. You do the same fights, which feel especially similar to the previous game since the combat system has not evolved.

Fighting feels almost identical to Xenoverse, and remains a major shortcoming. Players fly through the air pulling off simple combos to build up to easy-to-execute super moves, and that process is repeated until the fight is over. It doesnt have much depth, despite its impressive flash. Xenoverse tries to find the middle ground between an action and fighting game without being particular successful at either. Zipping around the screen firing off huge super moves looks good, but the second you lose the upper hand it starts to feel unfair, since youre forced to watch combat animations play out while you get tossed around like a ragdoll.

Cooperative and competitive online combat feels sterile compared to the constant party in Conton City. Some measures are taken in order to encourage team work, like being able to revive downed teammates, but in the end it feels like youre just fighting at the same time rather than together. I was far more excited about playing the offline story than I was about playing online missions.

Xenoverse 2 is a true sequel in that it picks up where the previous story left off, even allowing you to download your previous Xenoverse fighter to make an appearance. The Dragon Ball Z timeline is askew, and you must jump around in time to correct the errors. The big narrative addition this time around is the presence of villains from the Dragon Ball Z movies. Since Xenoverse is all about playing fast and loose with the Dragon Ball Z timeline, their presence doesnt feel inconsistent. You end up with scenes like Freeza fighting alongside his brother Cooler, which is neat for those who have followed the show for years.

The addition of Conton City alone makes Xenoverse 2 an improved sequel. Running (and later flying) around its large space with other Dragon Ball Z fans is fun, and walking up to familiar characters to learn their iconic super moves makes seeking out everyone worthwhile. It all eventually points to the combat, though, and I struggle to get excited about entering each new battle. It becomes a hurdle to what has the potential to be a highly replayable experience with lots of interesting unlockables.

Sherlock Holmes: The Devils Daughter is a showpiece of detective work and player choice  elements that speak strongly to Sir Arthur Conan Doyles character and empower you with the belief you are puffing away at the meerschaum calabash. Each of the five cases delivers numerous outcomes, along with the satisfying feeling you are uncovering clues only Sherlock Holmes could. Developer Frogwares is well in tune with Holmes, as it should be after spending 15 years with him over eight games. Frogwares hit on something special with the 2014 entry, Crimes and Punishments, and attempts to build a bigger experience in The Devils Daughter, but most of the new gameplay activities negatively impact the experience, and are made worse by maddening technical issues.

Life at 221B Baker Street is changing. The routine of cases coming in, the Great Detective diving into them, and guilty people ending up in jail continues like clockwork, but at a price. In The Devils Daughter we learn Sherlock Holmes excels at all professions except one: being a father. He has a teenage daughter named Katelyn  a cheery and educated girl who just wants to spend time with dear old dad. Her attempts to free her father of his work end in tears. Holmes is closed off, stern, and almost seems to be intimidated by fatherhood. We learn Kate is receiving parental guidance and love from a mysterious woman named Alice, who has recently moved in next door and has become a thorn in Holmes side. Seeing a flawed version of Holmes is a hell of a storytelling vehicle that youll want to see through to the end (and it concludes in a satisfying way), but getting there takes a considerable amount of effort.

The moments Holmes shares with his daughter are fleeting, and mostly occur in interstitial sequences between cases. This relationship is a central plot hook, so I found it strange to see it visited so infrequently. On the other hand, it strengthens the sense of separation from the daughter and amplifies concerns of Holmes addiction to his job. Its a subtle storytelling touch that pays off huge in developing Holmes as a conflicted character.

While I wanted to see more of Holmes family life, the five cases he embarks on are welcome distractions. Each offers distinct challenges and crime scenes to scour, from a ghastly traffic accident littered with the remains of humans and horses to a bowls club murder purportedly conducted by a living statue. The locations Holmes visits are as varied as the murder scenarios, taking players deep into showy forests to darkened piers and into expansive underground crypts that Indiana Jones would have a field day in. All the locations are lavishly detailed, and are fun to explore just from a history perspective. You can roam the streets of Victorian London in small hubs areas, but this feature is rarely tapped, forcing you to fast travel between locations instead.

Fast may not be the appropriate word given just how long the fast travel load times can be. In some cases, I would travel to Holmes home to complete a menial task like changing clothes or checking a dictionary  acts that can be completed in seconds  but had to sit through a couple of minutes of load time to get there, then another couple of minutes to fast travel to the next destination. The load times are not optimized to support the scenario design; the flow and connection players have to the cases is sapped by the unnecessary (and frequent) loading lulls.

Once a crime scene is reached, gathering evidence is where The Devils Daughter shines the brightest and truly feels like a detective game. Although Holmes can tap into superhero-like abilities to scan his surroundings for clues (think Batmans Detective Vision), most of the guesswork is up to the player. When people are interrogated, the player must create a portrait of them by scanning their body  an act that can be totally botched and cant be changed, leading you to potentially finger the wrong suspect. Clues gathered can also be linked in numerous ways, leading to different murder suspects, and potentially the wrong people being thrown behind bars or worse. Holmes morality also comes into play at the end of cases in moments where players shape him as a cold-blooded detective or caring humanitarian. The writing in the cases is quite good, but the conclusions to them are sadly too abrupt, giving little resolution other than a text blurb that says what will likely happen next. All of that difficult work in the cases (each lasting about an hour or two) concludes with a fizzle rather than a bang.

In trying to make The Devils Daughter a bigger game, Frogwares upped the amount of action, a costly move that, while making for more dynamic story moments, forces the player to endure half-baked minigames and overly long action sequences. In one moment, Holmes must outrun a hunter for what seems like an eternity, ducking behind boulders, trees, and even using his detective vision to uncover a safe rock path through a swamp. This sequence is silly, void of fun, and derails an otherwise awesome case. The same frustrations rise in a stealth sequence that is cool in concept, but couldnt be much more frustrating in execution. Frogwares tries to add action wherever it could, and it just doesnt pay off. The worst example is an intense moment where Watson is trying to revive a man through CPR that doubles as a rhythm minigame similar to Dance Dance Revolution. My connection to the world was lost in that instant, and I just sat back and laughed until the goofy sequence concluded.

For every gameplay misstep made, Frogwares dazzles with its puzzles, which are rarely repeated twice. Yes, some are overly complicated (like the act of lock picking), but others are brilliantly devised and are true tests of the power of Holmes perception. The great traffic accident sequence I mentioned earlier is the top moment, pushing the player to reconstruct the crime by lining up 13 pieces in the correct order. This puzzle requires a careful study of the crime scene; the player cannot breeze through it, and solving it feels fantastic, something again that enforces that feeling of wearing Holmes deerstalker.

The abrupt endings, forced action sequences, and extensive load times mar an otherwise fun adventure game. The topnotch writing, and fascinating hook of Holmes struggling with a real issue are buried beneath these problems. I enjoyed being a super sleuth, and adored just how intimate the deductive process is, but found myself getting pulled out of the thrill of the hunt by the gameplay diversions. I just wish I could avoid that element of the game as much as Holmes turns his back on his daughter.

Campaigns in the Call of Duty series can often be distilled down to a series of setpieces, clichd villains, telegraphed twists, and ridiculous monologues punctuated with excessive explosions. In Infinite Warfare, you still get some of all that, but if youre not careful you might also find yourself shedding a solitary tear for the brave soldiers and their sacrifices in the brutal war against the Settlement Defense Front. While the characters are cut right from archetypal cloth, real empathetic weight seeps through the story from beginning to end. Nothing is lost in terms of gunplay or the big moments, either; you still have a diverse roster of weapons to choose from, and the shooting is on-point.

Surprisingly, Game of Thrones Kit Harington as a critical commander of the enemy forces is the one notable misstep in the cast, as he fails to create tension or animosity as an antagonistic presence. Other characters, like the robot-soldier Ethan are surprising in a good way, as often the wisecracking sidekick trope is the stuff of annoying nightmares, but hes handled masterfully and ends up stealing every scene hes in.

Along with the solid boots-on-the-ground combat the franchise is known for, Infinite Warfare features flight missions in your jet-like Jackal that task you with shooting down other fighters, taking out enemy starships with cannons, and placing flares at the right moment to avoid enemy missiles. This isnt some tacked-on gimmick just to add a wrinkle to the established conventions, and I enjoyed many intense moments dodging debris while attempting to get a lock on enemy ace pilots. You also venture into the void of space without your ship during several segments, providing a taste of zero-gravity combat to go with the rest of the in-space meal. While the zero-gravity combat is a good deal less compelling than the rush of adrenaline the Jackal fights provide, it doesnt feel forced or out of place.

Weaponry feels rooted in realism, despite adding energy weapons and other elaborate future design tech to the mix. The weapon tech is somewhat dialed back from the flashy laser beams and other futuristic fare found in other recent Call of Duty titles. The mobility suite mirrors Call of Duty: Black Ops 3, offering boosted jumps, slides, and wall-running, and these elements are again more of an accent than essential. Mobility seems to almost hearken back to much older games in the franchise, with these elements mainly providing some alternate traversal options on maps. As I vastly prefer a slower experience to the frenetic pacing of Advanced Warfare, the pace of combat here suited me quite well.

Multiplayer offers massive customization. You can create some fairly standard kits right off the bat, including stuff built for newer players that have trouble keeping a scorestreak going. I was fairly pleased that there are lots of weapon and class options for new or lapsed players to get in the mix and not feel like theyre dragging their team down, while still letting more experienced players shine without devolving just a chaotic shootfest.

All of the now expected multiplayer modes are available, from traditional team deathmatch, hardpoint, and kill confirmed to more exotic offerings like infected, gun game, or defender, where players attempt to hold a ball in a lethal game of keepaway. Tired of getting shot in the back after you spawn? Try Frontline, which has fixed spawn locations. Whatever your playstyle, theres a mode for you, and were almost at the point where I think there may be too many game modes if we keep going  Infinite Warfare might be at the perfect temperature in terms of options.

The Zombies mode takes many of the same features of the film-noir undead romp of Black Ops 3, tones down the difficulty a bit, and offers players more substantial upgrades to take from game to game. The journey now takes place in an amusement park and is infused with 80s music, characters, and secrets. David Hasselhoff as the mysterious DJ, killer exploding clowns, and tracks from bands like R.E.M and Blondie make this mode feel like a unique experience despite implementing many of the mechanics from Black Ops 3. Zombies is a fun, nostalgia-laden co-op experience thats accessible without needing a hardcore team to make steady progress.

Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare features a compelling single-player experience with plenty of optional missions for those looking for more, and robust multiplayer modes for players of every style, whether youre leading the scoreboards in kill confirmed or goofing around with friends taking on an alien invader in an over-the-top amusement park. 

Owlboy brims with an unbridled earnestness I cant help but root for. Its characters are unflinching optimists, always looking for silver linings and the next course of action, even in the face of tragedy. The line between good and evil is crystal clear, being selfish or mean is looked down upon, and the story's tone tends to match that of a great childrens film. It also happens to be one of the most well-paced, clever, and fun games of the year.

Owlboy takes the freedom of movement of a side-scrolling shooter and blends it with the pacing and design sensibilities of a game like Zelda or Metroid, where you travel around a number of zones and solve puzzles. As Otus, an anthropomorphic owl, youre free to fly in any direction for as long as you want. Moving around the world feels natural. On the ground, the game feels like a platformer; in the air, you maneuver around enemies and shoot them like you would in a dual-joystick shooter.

Instead of holding his own weapons, Otus enlists one of three friends who each fire a different type of gun. Geddy uses a pistol that lets you pick off enemies at a distance. Alphonse, who you meet later, uses a powerful musket that takes a long time to reload and has a short range. In hectic fights, I frequently start with Alphonse as my opening salvo, then switch to Geddy while keeping an eye on the reload timer, which gives every fight a fluid, cyclical pace. I wont spoil the third friend, but they grant you even more mobility at the cost of firepower.

Making every gun its own character works brilliantly, since it reinforces Owlboys strong characters. Geddy, Alphonse, and Otus establish a good group dynamic through snappy dialogue that gives everyone a distinct personality. I came to like almost everyone in the supporting cast, who are all brought to life with incredibly detailed animations. Though Otus is silent, he says what he needs to with his facial and body language. When hes surprised, his eyes bulge in a cartoonish fashion, and when he approaches a cemetery, he demures, treading slowly in respect.

A few sections limit your ability to fly, but most levels embrace your power of flight, and working through them feels refreshing as a result. During my first couple of hours, I had to remember that if I couldnt find the missing piece or trick to solve a puzzle, I could just fly up to platforms that seemed out of reach. Whenever I got stuck later on, it was because I hadnt thought of a particular use for a tool I already had, like the ability to hide from enemies behind boxes or grappling objects from afar (a skill you acquire later on). Some of the puzzles go by too quickly, but most are involved enough to make you scratch your head. 

Every boss is a highlight, forcing you to maneuver deftly or use every tool at your disposal in clever ways. In many of them, the dynamic of avoiding projectiles while waiting for a tell mixes well with the Metroid-esque tendency to use the newest weapon at your disposal. Not all of the fights work this way; one boss, a giant worm, adheres more closely to the avoid bullets and shoot the weakpoint school of boss design, but its still a fun fight. 

In the 10 hours it took me to get through Owlboy, I never felt like I was going through the motions, and I only once felt like Id rather skip a part of the game, during a later stealth section aboard a pirate ship where the checkpoints were too spread out. But otherwise, I was constantly facing new situations. A few stealth sections slow the pace down, but theyre (mostly) not too frustrating. A few bombastic set-piece moments, like skimming from rock to rock to avoid a pirate ships cannon, punctuate these segments as well.


I constantly wanted to see what Owlboy would show me next, but I lingered on a few side activities, too. Rings and coins are scattered all throughout the world, and collecting them lets you upgrade your weapons and wear silly hats once you cross once you've collected enough coins. You can also seek out a couple of more well-hidden secrets. Seeking out coins is worthwhile, since the weapon upgrades are more powerful, and one side quest offers a bit more backstory.


While the characters and world of Owlboy made me want to keep going, the plot falls a bit short. Early on, the game sets up an interesting dynamic between Otus and his stern mentor, Asio, who scolds Otus frequently. The plot hints at why hes so harsh with you, but the full reveal never comes. The relationship is thrown by the wayside for most of the game, and the unsatisfying ending doesnt tie up the loose thread. Instead, it introduces a convoluted plot point in the last hour, then never fully explains that, either.


Owlboy not only has the hook of a new idea to mix up the genres it mettles in, but the fundamentals to follow up on it. Its sense of movement is fluid, its momentum is strong, and its characters are engrossing. The tone might be saccharine at times, but when so many other games go for either oppressive grittiness or eye-rolling irreverence, Im willing to accept that.

The original Shadow Warrior probably ranks among the more forgettable Doom clones, arriving in 1997 shortly before the likes of Half-Life, Quake, and Unreal made first-person shooters one of gamings most popular genres. Flying Wild Hogs 2013 reboot channeled the irreverent humor of the original game into a modern first-person slasher/shooter that was smart enough to bank on its own arcadey action rather than mine nostalgia. Flying Wild Hogs sequel tries to expand on that solid foundation, introducing RPG-like elements and a quest system in a semi-open world that emulates the likes of Borderlands and Destiny. While that sounds promising on paper, Shadow Warrior 2 is a prime example of how bigger is not always better.

One of Shadow Warrior 2s biggest problems is it tries to create an epic adventure story that rests chiefly upon callbacks to the reboot. As someone who played through that reboot last year, I was constantly frustrated by the sequels expectation that I remember each and every archetypal character I met previously. The story makes no effort to explain every familiar face you meet or what role they have to play in the grand scheme of things. If you dont remember how villain number one was a different kind of bad guy from villain number two in the reboot, youre going to spend a good portion of the sequel trying to figure out the surprisingly convoluted relationships between characters.

Many games of this type discard story in the name of wacky, bloody shenanigans but Shadow Warrior 2 is insistent on its plot. The game asserts that its characters have depth and heart beyond profanity and bloodlust, that there is some element of tragedy at the heart of the story. This results in a story thats constantly failing to explain why you, as Lo Wang, are going to do the thing you do, usually fetch quests or assassination missions that go from being entertaining to downright dull rather quickly. The missteps with the plot would be more forgivable if the dialogue was snappy or entertaining, but the jokes are a combination of stale pop-culture references, potty humor, and quips that feel like theyre trying so hard to be edgy  none of it really works.

The solid gameplay from the reboot receives a few tweaks in the sequel, and not all of them for the better. The first game was a straightforward, corridor game focused on killing a bunch of bad guys with swords and guns. The simple but fun formula worked. The second game expands its size, presenting the player with various zones they can explore to complete side quests to earn weapons and money to buy upgrades. A leveling system also lets players earn skill points to give Lo Wang new powers or upgrade existing stats, like health or how many rounds of ammo he can hold. However, these additions effects are incremental at best  mere distractions that force you to navigate a series of menus so you can drop points into categories you probably wont really care about.

In keeping with the RPG-lite adjustments, enemies now have health bars, and numbers leap off of them when you damage them. You can turn these things off (like I did) but that doesnt stop foes from feeling like bullet sponges. However, perhaps the biggest disappointment is the weapon quality. Like Borderlands 2, Shadow Warrior 2 boasts a sizeable arsenal of weapons, but most of them are unsatisfying to use. Pistols, assault rifles, bows and arrows, and shotguns all feel seriously underpowered. Melee weapons are an exception, its the only notable element of the combat.

Shadow Warrior 2s melee combat is consistently entertaining and occasionally spectacular, with enough speed and special powers for the player to take on entire squads of enemies and dance around them, slicing them to ribbons like some violent ballet dancer. Its often a gruesome display but it does a great job of making you feel powerful by letting you string together combos, like summoning spikey pillars from the ground to pierce enemies, stunning them and leaving them open to your attacks. You can also briefly turn invisible and sneak around the battlefield to launch an attack that does nearly double damage on unsuspecting enemies. In these moments, Shadow Warrior 2 unloads its treasure on the player, introducing a violent rhythm thats enjoyable and easy to master. Unfortunately, that loop cannot sustain itself for the entire 15-hour campaign, which is how long the game takes if you pursue side missions for better weapons and to upgrade your skills to make melee combat a viable option in later fights.

Once I completed Shadow Warrior 2, I sat watching the credits and feeling a strange sensation of relief and disappointment at having finished yet another first-person shooter that trades a sharp focus for hours upon hours of grinding to earn unrewarding content. The reboot, in spite of its dumb writing, felt fresh and was consistently entertaining throughout its campaign thanks to its focus. The sequel, however, feels stretched out, like its trying to be an RPG, an open-world game, and a shooter all at once with little success. In the end, theres precious little of Shadow Warrior 2 that makes for a compelling experience. 

Infinite Air piggybacks on the world-building of the Golf Club, but unlike that title, Infinite Air's gameplay core isn't strong enough to anchor the trappings around it. Populating a mountain with rails and jumps and creating competitions for others as they have for you is a tantalizing playground, but one that can't rise above the surrounding mediocrity.

Predictability is hard to come by in Infinite Air's trick system  an ignominious position for such a major gameplay component. Spin is generated by pre-loading your rider before launch, and the amount of spin you get decays the longer you hold down the triggers (for left or right spin, respectively). But this isn't the tricky part, as you can become accustomed to this (and pulling off tricks in general) after several hours of play. Stopping your rotation, however, is another matter altogether. Some previous trick-based games like Tony Hawk or Skate are built around specific inputs producing specific tricks. The fact that Infinite Air is physics-based and eschews the Tony Hawk-type direct approach means there is no way to predict when you're going to stop rotating once you start. This isn't a big problem when you're spinning in the normal horizontal plane, but if you try and perform tricks containing end-over-end flips or rolls, you have no way of judging whether you'll land on your feet or not.

This isn't the only frustration with the trick system. Initiating the rolls and flips themselves is inconsistent, rails feel floaty and can be hard to engage, and there are times when even ollie-ing doesn't happen when prompted. The fact that there are multiple ways to spin, flip, roll, and ollie isn't bad in and of itself, but it doesn't help users get comfortable with the controls, either. Also, when you get a face full of snow after messing up a trick which happens quite a bit  the rag doll physics often glitch out or the respawn puts you in a bad spot.

Creating your own mountain  from landscaping the terrain to placing a variety of objects  is a less-frustrating affair than the trick system. It even includes the cool snap tool, which lets you link rails together into a single span, for example, as well as combine dissimilar objects. However, while there are some killer runs to make yourself or test out from another user, there's no larger framework in place to provide an encouraging meta-experience around creating runs or trying them out. The landscape is dotted with user-created contests (and making your own is easy, especially with a handy rewind button and other controls), but beating one doesn't even unlock more boards or gear like the career-like circuit mode.

Infinite Air offers a lot to like on a conceptual level, but its faulty trick system creates a hole that is impossible to fill.

Mario Party has always been about players taking turns to roll dice and traveling across a game board, with a smattering of minigames to break up the monotony. Star Rush, the latest entry in the series, takes some big liberties with that core concept, ditching the turn-based approach of its predecessors in favor of simultaneous play. The linear board-game levels are gone, and in their place are a variety of completely open maps that scatter rewards and objectives throughout. The result is an experience that delivers a markedly different experience and shakes up the formula, for both better and worse.

Rather than focusing on one main mode with accompanying peripheral modes pushed off to the side, Star Rush presents each mode as equal, with the only distinction being how long it takes to unlock each mode. From the frantic Toad Scramble and Balloon Burst (which have four characters moving simultaneously through an open, non-linear board) to the beat-match mode Rhythm Recital, Mario Party: Star Rush presents myriad modes to play either solo or with friends.

My favorite mode is Balloon Burst, which comes closest to a traditional Mario Party experience. Though I prefer the linearity of past Mario Party games to the structure of Star Rush, I enjoyed the mad rush that occurred every time a new ally character popped up, as each one you collect rewards you with bonuses like modified dice and bonus abilities.

I was pleasantly surprised by the strange Mario Shuffle, a 1v1 mode that gives both players three cardboard cutouts and two dice. Each team rolls its dice, then decides which piece uses each roll in an effort to get to the opponents side of the board. The strategy of deciding which piece to apply the rolls to makes you factor in the spaces that can either send you forward or push you backwards, and that jumping an opposing piece stuns them for a turn, while landing on them sends them all the way back to start. My most thrilling moment with Star Rush came from this mode, as my opponent and I struggled to get our final pieces to the end  but with them both in the same lane, we kept impeding on each others progress.

Join The Party For Free

The free Party Guest Edition (available on the eShop for free) allows you to play with anyone who owns the full game. It doesn't work on its own, but this solution is a nice workaround that breaks down the handheld multiplayer barrier. Plus, any experience you gain in the free version transfers to the full game if you buy it.

Unfortunately, the remaining modes fall short. Rhythm Recital challenges you to play along to several iconic songs spanning Marios three decades. I loved that I could select songs ranging from the Overworld Theme from the original Super Mario Bros. to the Super Bell Hill theme from Super Mario 3D World, but the instrument parts feel only vaguely related to the music being played. Rather than playing the actual music from the games, youre relegated to adding small flourishes and additions to the songs as they play automatically. Coinathlon is a repetitive mess of a mode where you play the same three coin-collection minigames on repeat. Each coin you collect moves your character a space forward; the first to complete a set number of laps wins. 

Most of these modes are anchored by the minigame collection, which features a diverse array of hit-or-miss offerings. I liked minigames like one where you shoot balls of paint at a picture to try and cover more space than your opponent, and another where characters ride Wigglers around and smash into each other. For every good minigame, however, there is another I hated to see pop up. One made me blow into my 3DSs microphone until I was blue in the face to move sailboats down a course, while another does nothing more than deliver a subpar match-three puzzle experience. Even the special boss battles, which are among the strongest minigames available, only offer a handful to cycle through.

Mario Party: Star Rush feels more like a collection of modes than a fun next step for the series. The simultaneous gameplay left me feeling less invested in the actions of my opponents, minimizing the desire to be strategic, while the minigames were more hit or miss than ever before. Though the Mario Party series has experimented with the formula more and more in recent years, Star Rush feels less like a Mario Party game than any of its predecessors.

While the space flight simulation genre continues to find support and solace in what promises to be a new era of multi-faceted offerings with games like Elite: Dangerous and Star Citizen, sometimes you just want that feeling of dogfighting in your local arcade cockpit with a slice of pizza dripping onto your shirt as you blast an enemy starfighter to smithereens, watching the pixels burst. House of the Dying Sun taps into a lost era of starfighting simulation, successfully evoking the feeling of a classic space shooter like X-Wing, TIE Fighter, or Starlancer. If youre looking for a story, forget it; its as clich and barebones as they come. If youre looking for tight gameplay, great music, and intense dogfighting, youve come to the right place.

A minimalistic story could be a serious detriment to other games, but the focus is clear here: Gameplay and space combat take center stage. Arcade-style movement with the ability to drift and brake on a dime after boosting to dodge a locked-on enemy combatant is satisfying, and you dont need a HOTAS setup to enjoy it either  the core mouse and keyboard controls work great. 

With an upgradable arsenal of autocannons, heavy weapons, and sleek maneuvering around asteroids and other craft, you unleash hell on the enemies of the Emperor. The concept is simple and so are the missions, tasking the player to destroy enemy ships, defend allied assets, or run escort duty. Dogfighting in your craft with enemy fighters zipping around asteroids is intense fun, and missions are a quick restart if you run into an errant piece of space debris. The constant pace of combat is immersive and exciting, with the threat of enemy reinforcements always moments away, forcing you to complete your task and warp away before more difficult opponents join the fray.

It takes a a few mid-tier missions to really get the hang of ship control, assigning your other pilots tasks while shooting around the sky, and hopping into your allied vessels when your first option is turned into scrap, but the challenge summons a nostalgic feeling I enjoyed, though theres little variety in mission structure or tasks.

The core game and missions can be completed in just a few hours, but many additional unlocks and challenges can keep the journey through space rolling for those seriously looking for more. Short length is not necessarily a negative point to a game, but its a noticeable detriment here, offering a tiny taste of what a full-fledged title could be within the same framework and strong mechanics.

Within the brief campaign, content offerings are sparse and consist mainly of tougher difficulty encounters or a challenge mode  simple, barebones stuff with graphics that dont really live up to todays standards. While the visuals are functional and crisp, they dont need to be as blast-from-the-past as the rest of the title.

House of the Dying Sun is light on content offerings and depth, but big on giving players a modern day chance to experience the great gameplay that defined classic space shooters of an era long past.
Dogfighting In VR
House of the Dying Suns lightweight graphics and laser-focus on crisp combat lend themselves admirably to a VR experience. If you have either a Rift or Vive, those should be your first choice for hopping into the pilots seat. 

Revenge is one of the oldest and most pervasive storytelling themes found in literature, film, and theater. Interactive entertainment frequently trades in this convention as well, giving players the tools to pursue justice unbound by the restraints of law and order. Arkane Studios has made the conceit the calling card of its Dishonored series, preserving the quest for vengeance as the sequels central theme. 

Fifteen years after Emily Kaldwin ascends to the throne following the assassination of her mother, Dishonored 2 begins with an unexpected (and abrupt) coup. Depending on the choice you make in this pivotal turn of events in the throne room, either Emily or her father Corvo Atttano (the original Dishonored protagonist) must voyage to the southernmost point of the empire to unravel the conspiracy of this successful putsch and exact vengeance. 

Dishonored 2 wisely preserves the play style flexibility of its predecessor, but better balances the scales between choosing a blood-soaked, high-chaos approach and a nonviolent, low-chaos solution. Whereas the first game failed to deliver a compelling progression for stealth-minded players, the distinct powers Emily and Corvo wield are equally useful for avoiding detection and taking a pound of flesh from every enemy you encounter. Stealthy players will also appreciate the addition of nonlethal drop takedowns and a small timing window that allows you to choke out enemies after stunning them during combat.

Corvo retains the same supernatural arsenal as the first game  allowing him to bend time, sic swarms of rats on enemies, and possess animals for a brief moment  but each skill now upgrades in multiple ways via branching paths using runes you can find hidden throughout the levels. On the other hand, Emily brandishes a suite of brand new abilities, making her the more interesting choice for a first playthrough. The doppelganger and mesmerize powers are useful diversions, and the shadow walk skill makes her much harder to spot when moving through heavily patrolled areas. Each of these has value, but the star power of the game is domino. Once fully upgraded, domino allows you to tie the fates of several enemies together via a psychic bond. Incapacitating or eliminating an entire room of guards in one fell swoop always feels gratifying.  

You cannot unlock every upgrade for either character in a single playthrough, which makes the weight of rune-spending decisions heavier and encourages replayability. The addition of bone charm customization and a no-powers mode also give you variables should you choose to play multiple times. The story is largely the same no matter which protagonist you choose, but Emily and Corvos unique voiceovers give new perspective to unfolding events. Also expect to stumble upon nooks and crannies you may have missed earlier.

Whatever approach you choose, Dishonored 2 rewards situational analysis, patience, and experimentation with the supernatural powers at your disposal. The game shines when you treat each enemy encounter like a puzzle, discerning whether to lure enemies into traps, pit them against one another, or evade them altogether with some deft navigation and sleight of hand. Stumbling upon solutions like turning the mechanical clockwork soldiers against their creator is a true joy of the game.

The excellent level design plays a large role in creating these improvisational opportunities. Dishonored 2 is at its best when it pushes beyond its comfort zone with standout missions like the Clockwork Mansion and Stiltons Manor. Each introduces a room- and time-shifting mechanic, respectively, that increases the navigational challenge and opens up new opportunities for clever takedowns. 

The sunny island city of Karnaca feels radically different than the cold and foggy industrial capital of Dunwall, and its locales are much more diverse and many environments bustle with civilian activity.  Eavesdropping on passersby gives more color to the experience, and Arkane deftly created several navigational puzzles that must be solved to reach the location of the various runes, bone charms, and lore. The minute-to-minute experience isnt radically different than the first game, but feels honed.

Given the excellent environmental storytelling, the rushed and underdeveloped main story beats surprised me. From the abrupt usurpation of the throne to the final showdown, Dishonored 2 never slows down enough to create meaningful context to the events or banter between the main characters. When another claimant to the throne appears out of nowhere, we are expected to believe the entire Dunwall court just takes her word at face value and abandons its ruler as thoughtlessly as a dim guard abandons investigating the shadowy figure that just darted past. The narrative isnt bad, but could have been much more impactful with better execution. To get the most out of it, I highly recommend you play the excellent original game and its DLC first.

The ending is largely the same no matter how much blood you spill during the course of your revenge campaign, but the epilogue cutscene that follows has several permutations based on who you killed and spared. In general, the chaos system seems more forgiving than the previous game; killing particularly devious people does not harshly penalize players who otherwise show compassion and restraint. As with the last game, leaving corpses all over the world results in a bigger infestation of the local pest (in this case, swarms of dangerous blood flies), adding an extra layer of difficulty to backtracking for action-oriented players. The only tonal imbalance relates to looting, which does not factor into the chaos system. The former leaders of the empire can steal from the poor and the rich alike with no consequences. Since coin plays a critical role in upgrading weapons and replenishing supplies, you are essentially encouraged to embrace the life of a burglar. 

Dishonored 2 successfully builds on the solid stealth-combat foundation of the original while introducing enough fun new gameplay concepts to feel fresh. Whether you prefer sticking to the shadows or gutting every co-conspirator in the land, the game offers a rewarding experience with attractive upgrade paths.  The narrative doesnt match the high bar of the gameplay and world building, but Arkane Studios nonetheless delivers a must-play revenge tale among the best in its class.
THE EDGE
I played through Dishonored 2 on the PlayStation 4 and had a largely stable experience, with only one hard crash. However, other GI editors have reported framerate issues on the Xbox One S, and the PC version is suffering from optimization issues Bethesda hopes to address with a patch due later this week. In the meantime, the publisher urges players to use the recommended settings posted on its site. 

Pokmon is a series that nailed its mechanics on the first try. It was a massive success and follow up entries have mostly stayed the course: Capture monsters, collect badges, and share your collection with friends. Sun & Moon is not a radical reinvention of Pokmon, but it does re-examine some ingrained mechanics and the result is a better, more diverse Pokmon experience that feels different from past games, even if it does have a familiar core.

The first thing I noticed is human character models and their animations have been dramatically improved. The Pokmon feel mostly unchanged, but the way your character and other NPCs move is significantly better. Grid movement is finally dead, and I couldnt be happier. Animation improvements even help in storytelling. The narrative delivers familiar messages of kinship and working with your Pokmon friends, but it does hide a few surprises, as well as mysteries extending beyond the credits that are worth exploring.

Walking around in Alola feels better, and its layout is much friendlier. Tall grass is still unavoidable in some instances, but you can often take a path around it if you need to avoid combat. Alolas islands are more open, and while it is in your best interest to explore the grass, fight, and collect, I was happy to discover the safe routes when I was just trying to go from point A to B. Even the trainers who cant help but stop you in the road to battle offer more signs theyre prepared to pounce. You wont make much progress if you avoid them all, but I like having a way out.

Mechanically, fighting is mostly unchanged. Z-Moves are the big twist this time around, replacing the Mega Evolutions of recent entries. Z-Moves act like a guaranteed critical hit, and each is accompanied by a dance. Maybe performing a dance to pull off an ultra move sounds dumb, but the excellent animation makes the dances fun to watch. The Pokmon-specific Z-Moves are also entertaining, as it gets your pocket monster involved in the often-absurd display. They function as a give-it-all-you-got attack to finish off a powerful foe, give yourself a strong lead, or to get you out of a tough situation. Using one is always an important decision and its a fun tactical play to use the only you can against the right enemy at the right time in a difficult fight.

The rock-paper-scissors nature of fighting is still here, but now it remembers what attacks work best against which enemies for you. Ive always struggled remembering the breakdown of strengths and weaknesses when it comes to Pokmon types, especially as new ones have been added over the years, so this reminder was invaluable to me. In the past, I would keep a document nearby listing all of the types strengths and weaknesses, and I am happy to leave it behind. Anything that keeps me playing the game and not putting it down to do research is a good thing.

Battling and collecting Pokmon feels the same, but finding Gym Badges is different. You complete Trials instead of taking on Gyms, and thats more than just a change in terminology. Combat is still crucial to completing each Trial, but additional tasks make them all unpredictable. One has you listening to sound cues and identifying what they represent, while another tasks you with collecting ingredients to summon a powerful Totem Pokmon. I didnt know what to expect going into each of these trials, and as a player who has collected his fair share of Gym Badges throughout his life, I enjoyed not knowing what was next. The non-combat parts of these Trials are never hard and usually played for laughs. The nature of the Trials also gives what would have been forgettable gym leaders in the past an opportunity to show some character and be more memorable. The Trial structure made me eager to go after each one, especially since they all award new Z-Moves (instead of just an icon attached to your save file).

HMs (hidden machines), which allow you to do things like learn to fly for fast travel, or break rocks for expanded exploration, are gone for Sun & Moon. Instead, you have a device that lets you call in Pokmon you can mount. You can ride Taurus, for example, to travel faster and break through rocks. I prefer this over the HM system, since it means you no longer have to sacrifice one of your Pokmons attack slots in order to perform special environmental moves. Plus, seeing your trainer ride around on assorted Pokmon as you control them is fun, and sometimes very dumb.

Your Pokdex offers more visual reward for collecting Pokmon, though the act of catching the creatures is unchanged. You can tell immediately if a Pokmon has an evolution when you catch it, and when you collect a full set, the background color of that Pokmons entry changes. Its a small flair, but it makes filling out your Pokdex enticing, and it is easier to see what entries are missing.

Much of the clutter from the previous games has been removed for a U.I. with fewer distractions and mini-games. Pokmon-Amie has been renamed to Pokmon Refresh and while it continues to serve the same ignorable functions of the previous games like petting and feeding your team, it now also allows you to remove status ailments between fights. You can still go the standard route of using items to cure things like poison and paralysis, but I like having a free option that gives you a close-up look at the Pokmon models.

Pok Pelago can be accessed any time, and lets you periodically do something with the Pokmon living in your PC. The rewards are small, but I like even the idea that my Pokmon are not just languishing away in my PC. Festival Plaza is a physical place where you and your friends can socialize, trade, and battle. It does a good job limiting the menu-heavy interaction typically associated with playing Pokmon with friends. Sun & Moons Photo Mode is fairly shallow and is not the return of Pokmon Snap some hoped it would be. As an additional distraction to explore in Alola, however, its a welcome bonus. Strangely, it also represents the only element of the game in stereoscopic 3D. I did not miss stereoscopic 3D in the rest of the game, but I admit surprise at its near total absence.

Sun & Moon feels significantly different from previous Pokmon games. X & Y may have marked the series biggest visual change, but Sun & Moon shows Game Freak is willing to re-examine Pokmons tenured mechanics in order to improve the game. Sun & Moon is still Pokmon, but it showcases some of the biggest changes the series has ever seen  and thats a good thing.
The Difference Between Sun & Moon
The differences between Pokmon versions are generally small and relate to which Pokmon are more prevalent in which versions. That continues to be the case here, as some Pokmon only appear in one version, or appear more frequently in one version over another. Beyond the monsters, the Sun and Moon versions are different in another way: The day/night cycle. If youre playing Sun, the in-game time of day corresponds to the real-life time of day. In Moon, the times are reversed; when you play during the day, it is night in the game. The difference is mostly an aesthetic one, and thankfully never impedes your plot progress.


Obsidians latest role-playing epic is true to its name. Tyranny is concerned with the nature of power, and the ways in which the concentration of that power invariably leads to oppression. Obsidian pulls no punches in its depiction of a world overthrown by evil, and players shouldnt have any illusions that the protagonist is somehow a remedy to this worlds dilemmas.  This is a bleak and hopeless story, but one told with imagination, vibrant world-building, and dramatic choices that fundamentally alter the narrative as it unfolds. 

You are an enforcer and arbiter of the Overlord, whose armies seek to overwhelm and crush the last vestiges of resistance in a world that has already suffered hundreds of years of brutal rule. An opening campaign of harsh binary choices describes the first few years of the conquest, and its thrilling to see the ways seemingly minor choices in the introductory minutes dramatically shake up the rest of the story. For example, one soldier might recall the harsh judgment you refused her countrymen years earlier, and deny you crucial passage into a fort. Once you get into the meat of the tale, Tyranny is filled with fascinating characters shaped by the realities of their situation. In particular, the other leaders of the Overlords armies are brilliantly conceived  warped creatures of malice and cunning that act as great conversational foils to your ongoing adventure.

Tyranny offers copious tracts of text that provide a breadth of options and outcomes, but the decisions eliminate stereotypically good or merciful selections. You are sometimes left only grim alternatives, such as murdering helpless prisoners in cold blood, or abandoning them to torture and degradation. The party members who join you are likewise reprehensible, valuing slaughter and control as virtues, or at best turning a blind eye to suffering. Engendering an affinity or affection for them when most are so unsympathetic is hard, and you get little in the way of meaningful relationship evolution over time. While the focus on malevolent characters and decisions is certainly novel within the genre, it can lead to an absence of investment in narrative outcomes. If Im not given an option to choose a good path, is it really that impactful to adopt a darker persona?

Obsidians love for the isometric RPG is once again apparent, and while the systems differ, players of last years Pillars of Eternity will feel right at home with the core mechanics. Excellent pause-and-play combat is tactical and challenging, and grows more so through the variety of consumables, spells, and combo abilities; only occasional A.I. and pathing issues marred my impression. A highly flexible spell-crafting system is a particular highlight, and makes magic-focused characters more interesting than their martial counterparts. Character customization is deep and complex, with multiple possible roles available to any party member, made all the more nuanced once high-powered weapons and armor begin to introduce their own powers and abilities to their wielders. 

Tyrannys setting sells the idea of a ruined land and battered populace. Each of several distinct areas bears the mark of the Overlords overwhelming magical might, often through catastrophic spells called edicts. Whether its a ceaseless storm that shatters a whole countryside, or a blistering volcano that consumes a rebellious enclave of scholars, each location feels distinct and memorable. You eventually control massive towers scattered amid the devastation, providing an intriguing twist on the idea of stronghold advancement. By mastering the magically connected Spires, players can build their own forge, infirmary, and more to help rally followers. I only wish the full spectrum of these stronghold options opened earlier in the game; just as I got a handle on my crafting abilities, the game was wrapping up.

Even within the limited constraint of mostly dark outcomes, Tyranny has an impressive array of potentialities to explore, and practically demands multiple playthroughs. Entirely new storylines, allies, and even visited areas might appear in a subsequent adventure, and its exciting to confront a new mix of betrayals and dangers. As evidenced by a gripping final act that cries out for a sequel, Tyranny puts enormous authority in the hands of its players to shape the destiny of an entire world, but also leaves those players with an unrepentantly sober warning about corruption and power.

Set in a world similar to our own, Watch Dogs 2 casts you as a young hacker named Marcus Holloway. He and his DedSec hacker group attempt to expose truths by breaching the security of large corporations and government administrations  all with a powerful smart phone that grants godlike control over San Franciscos citizens and infrastructure. Brimming with opportunities to mess with machines on a large scale, the freedom of Watch Dogs 2s open world is alluring and fun, with some improvements over its predecessor, but has missteps in other critical areas.

The original Watch Dogs fell short of presenting the hacker fantasy many envisioned. Hacking abilities had limited results that were more repetitive than engaging, and loose driving mechanics gave the impression that you were skidding on ice. These flaws have been addressed, with hacking put at the forefront of gameplay, and vehicles that handle much smoother on the road.

Watch Dogs 2 gives you plenty of ways to cause compelling havoc. You can control something as large as a crane, or cause an enemys phone to buzz to create a small disruption. Performing quick hacks with the touch of a button makes hacking easily accessible. You can also be precise, with deeper options including proximity traps and luring enemies towards imploding electrical fuses. Remotely controlling vehicles to spin them out of control is an immensely amusing way to lose pursuers during a car chase. I enjoy how Watch Dogs 2 gives you enough creative fuel to achieve the wackiest hacks, from blocking off entryways with forklifts or altering a foes data to become the target of a gang. This sense of variety and seeing the immediate repercussions of your hacks makes you feel powerful, giving you the illusion that almost anything is possible.

While Marcus is a step up from the empty personality of Aiden Pierce (the first games hero), he has problems of his own. Marcus is meant to have a strong sense of justice after being wrongly profiled as a criminal by the smart city and surveillance system, ctOS. However, this contradicts his actions that come across too delinquent and impulsive to be meaningful, such as scaring a teenage girl to teach her a lesson about online predators. Although the theme of exposing corruption through hacking is timely, its expression through Marcus actions is never nuanced enough to give much insightful commentary, instead remaining more juvenile in tone.

Your main goal is to gain as many DedSec followers as possible as you expose the dirty secrets of one corporation to the next, but it feels more like a popularity contest than hacktivism. You take on the role of a glorified prankster, but the game seems aware of its own absurdities. Though it can get some laughs, tipping the scale in favor of goofiness meant I never sympathized with DedSecs end goal of taking down Blume (the makers of ctOS), or connected with any of the characters, who are presented as whiny millennials angry at the system. Instead of being likeable, they are too obnoxious and petty to be meaningful companions.

Watch Dogs 2 is more concerned about making you laugh than making a statement, but some of its jokes are more cringe-worthy than clever, such as one character wearing a digital emoji mask. Its off-the-wall humor is outlandish, such as stealing a talking car from a famous film and flashily riding it across town to make headlines. As the game progresses, it tackles heavier topics, such as being investigated by the FBI and exposing how a social media giant helped rig an election, but Watch Dogs 2 never loses its ridiculous tone. It shines best when it satirizes real-world events, such as a mission that is an obvious spin on the Martin Shkreli controversy or when you infiltrate a Google-like company.

Missions can be tackled as you please, either stealthily or with guns blazing, though the quieter approach is far more enthralling due to its emphasis on hacking. The cover-based shooting works well, but it feels bland in comparison to the hacking mechanics, and offers little in terms of novelty. At one of the many hackerspace HQs, where fellow DedSec members can be found, you can use a 3D printer to build an assortment of standard weapons, such as sniper rifles, assault rifles, and shotguns. Outside of aesthetic skins, you cant modify these guns in any way. This is disappointing considering the amount of customization found elsewhere in the world, including the wide rage of apparel to dress Marcus in, from crocs to a biker vest. 

As for melee, Marcus has a nifty string attached to a weighted ball which he aggressively swings at foes or uses the cord to choke them. These are thrilling animations, but they leave you vulnerable in a shootout since they take a few seconds to play out, so melee is most useful when youre out of sight. You can play through the entire game non-lethally with Marcus stun gun, but you see no repercussions for a lethal versus non-lethal approach, which makes this distinction nearly meaningless. I preferred the more practical lethal approach, but going the non-lethal route adds more of a challenge and makes more narrative sense for Marcus. 

Marcus flying drone and tiny remote-controlled car are by far the best additions to your repertoire. These gadgets can reach higher levels or tighter spots that you cant access by foot. Both are helpful and enticing to use, such as distracting enemies and fooling them into following the RC car as it shouts profanities at them in a British accent. The RC car has an extendable arm, so you can pick up objects or hack junction boxes without physically being there, and the drone can scope out areas as you prepare your plan of attack. Some missions can be completed using these gadgets alone, and finding the route to success is an entertaining challenge. 
Features Offline
At launch, the seamless online features of Watch Dogs 2  including a new multiplayer mode called Bounty Hunter  were pulled offline temporarily due to lag and crashes (co-op was unaffected). As of press time, we didnt have a chance to test these features out completely, but they compose a relatively small piece of the whole Watch Dogs 2 experience.

Hacking invasions return, which are fun hide-and-seek sequences, where you either attempt to find the hacker stealing your data, or are the perpetrator yourself. The downside is you cant exit out of these invasions once they begin, leaving you with no choice but to play out the match and rendering you unable to start other missions until its over. You can, however, opt out of several different online modes completely in the settings.  

We also played a few solid co-op matches that are exclusive to a handful of side missions. These are substantial and fun, and can be played solo or with a friend. Often you are infiltrating a compound or entering a guarded area, to either find and extract data or destroy something. When playing with someone else, I enjoyed coordinating with my teammate, such as the other player using a drone to get a birds eye view of the area and directing me where to go.

In comparison to the originals drab setting of Chicago, San Francisco is a major improvement. The city and its surrounding neighborhoods are filled with personality, from downtowns colorful street art to Silicon Valleys tech empires, making this world a joy to explore. San Francisco is teeming with activities, including races with karts, sailboats, motorbikes, and drones, offering several courses with differing difficulties that are fun to play. Four different kinds of races dont provide much variety, but side missions are more substantial. An emphasis is put on environmental puzzles, from a recurring connective pipe puzzle mini-game that offers just enough challenge to be engaging, such as having to use a drone to maneuver around the closed circuit and change the angle of lines where necessary. I also enjoyed making my mark in graffiti, which you can do by finding your way up to specific high vantage points, and you have to use hacking tools or a keen eye to find your way upward.

As fun as exploration can be, I was disappointed on the technical front. While reviewing the game on PlayStation 4, I encountered significant framerate drops that occurred more than once, which is disrupting during shootouts and jarring if youre behind the wheel. That wasnt the only issue I encountered, either; a game-breaking bug that deleted several apps from Marcus phone (without any way to retrieve them) left me restarting the game completely. According to Ubisoft, this bug is extremely rare and should be patched soon, though it did disrupt my experience.

Watch Dogs 2 addresses many of the issues of the first game, putting hacking at the forefront, but its narrative struggles to stay engaging. Although the cast is unlikeable, the parodies and its ability to not take itself seriously brings charm. The stellar hacking mechanics can make your actions, such as taking control of a satellite in outer space, feel grandiose and unstoppable in entertaining ways.

At first, the sci-fi world of Robinson: The Journey seems like a perfect setting for a video game. Futuristic technology collides with prehistoric creatures as a young boy and his unlikely companions  an A.I. orb and a baby dinosaur named Laika  explore a strange and dangerous planet. The premise invites a variety of interesting gameplay possibilities, but your imagination is more compelling than anything Robinson: The Journey actually provides. Instead, it ineptly shuffles you through a series of brief-but-frustrating areas, stumbles with its VR interface, and fails to give you fun ways to explore your surroundings.

As Robin, your goal is to scour different areas of the planet to find clues about the spaceship crash that left you stranded  and any possible survivors. In gameplay, this translates to wandering around environments like forests and tar pits, making your way across chasms, and solving dull (at best) and unclear (at worst) puzzles to progress. The problem is that these activities require you to interact with the world, and thats the first place that Robinson: The Journey falls apart.

A significant amount of your traversal is climbing over rocks and debris, but the mechanics are finicky and awful. The main challenge just comes from positioning yourself in such a way that the game will let you secure a grip on the next hand-hold, often by bobbing or leaning out of the recognized play area to find purchase. Even when it all works, the process is still boring, since youre just climbing to get from one point to another without much else to do along the way.

That linear, on-rails feeling extends throughout the whole four-hour adventure. I felt like I was in a zoo staring at different habitats, not exploring a planet full of amazing things. The objects you can manipulate are limited, so the environments feel sterile despite being visually lush. Technically, you can perform a couple tasks in a different order, but that freedom has no meaningful effect, so you ultimately have nothing to do but go to the next area.

Another significant issue arises from the obstacles that block your progress. I hesitate to call them puzzles, because they arent that complex; they arent built for experimentation, and dont provide a sense of accomplishment when you finish them. For instance, you have a telekinetic wand that can lift all sorts of objects. But can you use it to pull a battery through a gap that is clearly big enough? No. Instead, you need to have your pet dinosaur squeeze through a hole and push the battery through the gap from the other side  and then you can pick it up with telekinesis. On top of the minimal amount of guidance you are given, the inconsistency of these roadblocks makes them frustrating and unsatisfying to solve.

In addition to Laika, you encounter other dinosaurs in a variety of shapes and sizes, which is my favorite part of the experience. Looking at huge, prehistoric beasts in virtual reality is cool, no matter how clumsy the framework around them is. However, apart from scanning these wild creatures to unlock tidbits of information, you cant do much with the dinosaurs. They usually just block your way, and you need to sneak around them or scare them off. Even Laika is effectively useless; youre given tutorials on how she works early on, but then you only use her in a handful of situations. It feels like someone just forgot about Laika and neglected to implement stuff for her to do.

I should also point out that, as a gamer who experiences simulation sickness, Robinson: The Journey quickly made me feel nauseous. When playing VR, I can usually take motion sickness medication and be fine. With this game, the drugs only delayed the inevitable for a little while, rather than keeping the sickness at bay completely. This wont be a problem for everyone, but it affected my ability to feel immersed.

Many virtual-reality titles feel more like technical demos than fully formed experiences, and Robinson: The Journey belongs on that list  though it tries to fool you into thinking it doesnt. A few elements add the illusion of depth, but they feel like shallow afterthoughts. This journey is just a linear tour of the world with no meaningful deviations and barely functional controls, all for the dubious benefit of seeing some cool VR dinosaurs. 

Telltales Batman initially did a poor job establishing how the developers take on Batman would be different than what fans of the Bat were already used to. Now, four episodes in, Batman: The Telltale Series has set itself apart from the rest of the Batman mythos by explicitly focusing on Bruce Waynes inner torment in wake of a crushing familial betrayal and his crumbling relationships with close friends who eventually become enemies. Guardian of Gotham is one of the more enjoyable and intriguing episodes, introducing twists on established characters and finally shining a much-needed ray of hope into a grisly story, though it doesnt quite reach the heights of episode 2.

Guardian of Gotham begins immediately after the dramatic cliffhanger of the third episode, with Bruce Wayne locked up in Arkham Asylum. With Gothams distrust and wrath against him, Bruce Wayne finds himself in a precarious situation without a friend  at least until a familiar face shows up. To talk about who this person is would taint one of the most delightful surprises within the episode, but rest assured that the twist that Telltale takes with this character, as well as the actors voice performance, is a spectacle that would justify playing through the episode even if the rest of the installment was dull. Luckily, this isnt the case.

Guardian of Gotham finds Bruce Wayne on the rebound, rising up and taking back Gotham bit by bit as he squares off against Harvey Dent, the Children of Arkham, and corruption within Gothams police force. While this might sound like your typical Batman one-off story, the episode finds strength in how much humanity it gives its characters. Dent, driven insane by both a serum as well as heartbreak over Bruces betrayal in the last episode, shifts back and forth constantly between a madman who will stop at nothing to bring order to the city (even if it means slaughtering innocent people) and as someone chest-deep in grief and remorse. This makes interactions between Bats and Two-Face tense and heartbreaking. As I played through their encounters, I kept trying to help Harvey out as much as I could, knowing deep down things could only end in tragedy.

The gameplay remains the same from previous episodes, with you either navigating crime scenes and stringing together clues to figure out what happened or fighting off bad guys in quick-time event sequences. The animation and intensity of these combat sequences are enjoyable. If youre annoyed by limited interactivity, you might find these sequences tiresome, but even then, theyre mercifully brief.

Guardian of Gotham is consistently strong throughout its two hours, constantly presenting tense scenes that play off the choices youve made in previous episodes, with one major disappointment: It ends on an abrupt note that offers no idea of whats to come in the final installment. Still, this episode packs enough dramatic moments, character development, and entertaining action sequences to emerge as one of the best episodes in the series and one of the best experiences by Telltale in recent memory, period. 

Theme parks have the incredible ability to transport visitors to magical new worlds. I find it hard to walk through Disney Worlds fairy-dust-sprinkled streets without dreaming about the amazing attractions Id cook up if I only had a billion dollars and a team of Imagineers on payroll. Planet Coaster is a theme park creation toolkit that helps scratch that itch. While this simulated theme park proves that managing your own wonderland isnt all fun and games, its nearly limitless creation tools allow for some grand displays sure to inspire the tycoons of tomorrow.

Planet Coaster is almost a misnomer. While roller coasters are certainly a star attraction for any theme park, thats only one element in Planet Coasters larger diorama. Frontier Developments (of Roller Coaster Tycoon fame) has created a complete theme park simulator that allows you to customize little details (like the speed of your tilt-a-whirl) while managing a staff and funding advertisement campaigns to attract the masses across the country.

Of course, those masses get most excited about roller coasters that send their stomachs into zero-g. Planet Coasters roller coaster creation set seems intimidating at first, but its easy to use. I found it simple to lay out a track, add loops or hills, and then add extra curves and twists to every inch of the track. During my time with Planet Coaster, I discovered that I was a sadistic designer who took a little too much pride in the fact that guests would often step off rides and immediately vomit, but I also never felt restricted while creating these horror shows.

Those who suffer from the blank-page syndrome might find inspiration by editing one of Planet Coasters extensive premade tracks. The game also offers great feedback on your creations, so you know if your coaster isnt obeying the laws of physics or if its too twisty and will make your guests sick. I found it very handy that I could automatically smooth out bumpy sections or autocomplete my tracks once my creative juices had started to run low.

The elasticity of Planet Coasters creation tools extends into the rest of the park. You can populate your playground with a variety of non-coaster rides, band stands, and shops. A wide array of scenery allows you to create sci-fi utopias, wild west sideshows, or pirate getaways. I ran into a few problems laying paths across my parks and connecting a rides exit back to the main park, but for the most part the only limit I felt while creating my theme parks was my own imagination.

As a creation kit, Planet Coaster is impressive. Unfortunately, as a management sim, the game feels like a slow ride on a carousel. You oversee everything from the price of your ticket sales, to the amount of money you spend on advertisements, to what new ride technology to research next; but making sure you have enough janitors to clean up after your guests isnt nearly as exciting as building a death-defying new coaster. A Career Mode lets you jump through a series of pre-made parks and complete a series of tasks to rejuvenate each park, but these objectives are often boring or tedious, so youre better off creating your own park from scratch.

Planet Coaster offers few carrots to continue to expand your park outside of the sheer joy of creation. Thankfully, Planet Coaster has so many tools available that that creating your own worlds of fun is often its own reward.

The idea of slaughtering dozens of zombies has lost its novelty over the years, but it still remains a satisfying way to unwind. Their broken bodies are ripe for guilt-free dismemberment, and their vast numbers are a great showcase for whatever overpowered weapons developers toss at the player. Killing Floor 2 takes its cues from innovators like Left 4 Dead, but the result is more than just a reanimated corpse of games that came before.

The core setup is simple: You choose a character and a perk (essentially a class), pick a map, and then start killing zombies. After you rip through enough of them, the wave ends and you get a short respite to stock up on ammo and weapon upgrades. The relief is only temporary, however, since the next wave is always right around the corner. Last through the final wave, and you face a boss zombie  a super-powered beast designed to smash you and your squad into the dirt. The formula seems straightforward, but I found a lot of meat on the bones.

You have 10 different perks to choose from, each of which is tailored to a specific way of playing. Support characters excel at using shotguns and other medium-ranged weapons, and they can also give their squadmates some extra ammo once per wave. If you prefer more distance between you and those shambling piles of rotten flesh, you might consider the sharpshooter. I gravitate toward support classes, so I spent the bulk of my time with the field medic. Even though its geared toward healing teammates, I found it the class to be a lethal partner in battle. Healing grenades release a cloud of vapor that restores allies who walk into it, while causing damage to the undead. Playing with a well-balanced group of six is a lot of fun, as is seeing how the various roles complement one another. Going solo isnt quite as engaging, but its still an enjoyable option if you cant round up a group.

As everyone knows, the best way to kill a zombie is to take out its brain. Popping heads is easy and rewarding, thanks to the nicely tuned controls and weapons. Some of the zombies are more resilient than others, but aiming for the brain is almost always a quick solution to whatever zombie problem youre facing. You can also blast (or chop) limbs off if youre so inclined, and Tripwire has lovingly modeled your enemies squishy interiors as well. Those moments are highlighted in delirious detail when the game kicks into a cinematic slow-motion mode, typically activated when you or one of your squadmates is doing well. There, you can plan your shots and fully appreciate all of the viscera  as well as some unfortunately awkward animations when the zombies magically hop over small obstacles. 

The zombies come in 10 flavors, too, and they also work together to create a grotesque synergy. Ordinarily, a large group of zombies is a perfect target for a grenade. That plan falls apart when a Siren is in their midst, and she lets loose a grenade-deadening scream. Whenever I was pinned by a mob of Cysts  the run-of-the-mill enemy type  a poison-spewing Bloat or fireball-flinging Husk were inevitably close by, giving my healing syringe a workout. Situational awareness is critically important, whether youre taking on the horde solo or in a squad of six. You know those moments in zombie movies where some dummy backs himself into a corner and gets swarmed? You experience that first-hand if youre not careful. Since youre not a parkour expert in this game, you cant jump your way out, either. I found it frustrating at first, but once I got accustomed to Killing Floor 2s unforgiving nature, it became much more rewarding. Success in battle helps to keep you alive, too, in both the long and short term. 

You earn cash (dosh, in the games weird parlance) by killing enemies. Once a round is successfully completed, theres a mad dash to the Trader Pod to refresh supplies. These automated kiosks are scattered around the maps, but only one is active at a time  a clever way to discourage players from turtling around an area for the duration of a match. A nice blend of powerful weapons is available, though you have to keep an eye on your carrying capacity; try to haul too much around, and it slows you down. For the lazies out there, you can also have the game automatically handle your purchases, an option that I found worked well overall. 

You need to shop if you hope to defeat the pair of bosses. Both of them hit hard and can heal, but they require slightly different tactics. The Patriarch has a missile launcher and machine gun, and he can also cloak. Hit him enough, and he retreats to lick his wounds. Dr. Hans Volter prefers to stay close, hitting squads with poison attacks and leeching the life from anyone unlucky enough to get within his grasp. The boss A.I. isnt particularly great, and larger squads can easily outsmart these saps by spreading out. The game attempts to increase the difficulty in these encounters by turning them into larger bullet sponges as the player count rises, which makes them feel tedious when youre in a full six-person group.

Over the long term, you accumulate XP that goes toward your characters development. Depending on your perk, you get bonuses for doing what youre designed for. Field medics get bonus XP for healing, while gunslingers get extra credit for headshots. Youre pretty fragile at first, but as you incrementally level up, you gain passive bonuses that help your survivability. Additionally, you can earn more powerful upgrades at various increments. For instance, as a field medic I could choose to have 125 health instead of the stock 100, or increase my damage resistance the more damage I took. Once these are unlocked, you can swap between them before matches, so you arent permanently locked into a decision.

Howd this zombie stuff happen? is usually an unanswered question in zombie fiction, and that tradition holds true in Killing Floor 2. It has no campaign to speak of, and the maps dont offer up much in the way of an overarching narrative, either. Instead, youre stuck in the aftermath of an outbreak, which takes you from a flaming downtown Paris to infested catacombs, subway tunnels, and a prison. The maps offer impressive variation, even if the core gameplay is the same. In most interior spaces, you can choose to weld down certain doors  a boon for controlling choke points, but at the risk of trapping your squad if things go south. A forest area doesnt provide those opportunities, but the open spaces give your team plenty of space to run. The same cant be said for a claustrophobia-inducing farmhouse and its accompanying barn, which can grind you to a bloody pulp if you dont effectively monitor its various hallways. I didnt mind the lack of a story, since this games focus is on repeatable fun over delivering an important message about the nature of humanity.

Players can choose the number of waves and difficulty, but the options are limited beyond that. An additional mode splits teams into zombies and survivors, giving one team a chance to play as the zombies  complete with their various special abilities. Its an amusing diversion from the core game, but I didnt find it as compelling over the long term.

Zombie fans have a lot of options out there, but they shouldnt overlook Killing Floor 2. Its a fun way to spend a few evenings, or as a deeper alternative to Call of Dutys zombies mode. Even though youve probably seen much of what it offers already, itll have you cackling as you paint the walls red with a few of your friends. 

Final Fantasy XV is a road trip that comes dangerously close to running out of gas, coasting on fumes long enough to deliver a rich and rewarding open-world experience that embraces the bond of friendship just as much as the thrill of hunting for rare treasure and beasts. The concept of hitting the open road in a convertible with three friends is largely successful, consisting of pit stops at roadside dinners, detours to lakes for a quiet evening of fishing, campfires under the stars, and expeditions through the wilderness to find a landmark for a group photo. Final Fantasy XV captures the atmosphere of cruising down an American interstate, but also the boredom that comes from staring down hundreds of miles of open road, or not having anything more to say to the people in the car. If you can tolerate a baffling amount of time where nothing but travel happens, Final Fantasy XV is a good game that upends series traditions and stands as a uniquely satisfying adventure.

Although much of the focus is on the road trip, this isnt a traditional coming-of-age story for the four young gentlemen in the car. Protagonist Prince Noctis is hitting the road to attend his wedding not by his own will, but the order of his father. Noctis is to wed Lady Lunafreya to bring two kingdoms together and end the threat of war.

The narrative sticks to basic beats and doesnt try to overwhelm the player with lore or branching threads, something Final Fantasy XIII struggled with. The story ends up being a fun and emotional ride. The camaraderie between Noctis and his pals is beautifully told, as is the turmoil plaguing the kingdom. Like a car rolling along the highway, the story doesnt dwell on particular moments for too long, and moves along at a fervent pace. Some big, emotional scenes are hurt by the push to move on, but the political jargon is kept to a minimum, and the focus is instead placed on developing the characters.

I was a big fan of Final Fantasy Xs ensemble, but thanks to the smart (and often funny) dialogue, Final Fantasy XVs characters are my favorite in the series. Prompto is loud and full of bad jokes, but he is sweet at heart and easy to root for. Ignis is the father-like voice of reason. Gladiolus is quiet and reserved, but ends up being the perfect wingman. Noctis is a bit of a cipher (which deepens the disconnect in emotional moments), but is a great leader, and an interesting, conflicted character, torn between his duties to the kingdom and wanting a different life.

The characters are made stronger by their interests, which are brilliantly sewn into the story and gameplay. Prompto is a photographer, and he snaps as many photos as he can throughout the trip. Whenever the group of friends rests for the night, the player can view all of the images hes taken, and can even save them. Ignis love of food is just as fun to follow. Whenever he sees someone eating a new dish, or discovers an ingredient, he has a eureka moment, and jots down a recipe, which can benefit the group with significant (albeit temporary) attribute bumps.

The groups car, the Regalia, is as much a character as they are. Sadly, I found it to be more of a thorn in the side of progress than the antagonist (who I wouldnt dare spoil since it's a mystery). Although most of the game takes place on roads, the car cannot be controlled in a traditional way. The top speed is roughly 50 mph (60 with an upgrade), and its basic movements, like turning or changing lanes, are predetermined. It feels like its on rails  you're more of an observer than a driver. The player is better off letting Ignis take the wheel, if fast travel is not available  which is often the case. Some trips can take upwards of 10 minutes. During these painfully long rides, you even see Gladiolus read a book in the backseat, almost telling the player to do something else than pay attention to the game. The car design is a monumental blunder, especially given the open world doesnt consist of that many roads; the same paths are taken over and over again. The Regalia eventually transforms into a more useful flying vehicle, but not until after the game is completed  another strange decision.

Given just how barren portions of the world are, I never wanted to just aimlessly run through it. Yes, there are treasures to find off of the beaten path, but you wont find many things to do along the way. Even battling monsters is somewhat scarce in certain regions.

The world isnt wasted, however. The abundance of side missions get you where you need to go, and most are enjoyable. Yes, a good number are of the "fetch" variety, but Square Enix does a nice job of making them worth your time. I always felt like I was finding something new, unlocking new abilities, or stumbling upon a secret that had been buried for centuries. The game is designed with side questing and hunting in mind, and it can be a blast if the player embraces these elements. Some tasks even take you into excellently-designed dungeons, complete with over-the-top boss battles.

Combat is nicely crafted, offering a wide variety of team-based strategies on top of the need to be swift and skillful. Although combat feels more like an action game in the vein of Devil May Cry or God of War, RPG conventions are the foundation, and it ends up being an excellent hybrid experience. Noctis weapons are greatly varied in functionality and power, but the best (and flashiest) attacks are the link strikes that Noctis coordinates with his friends. Faulty camera tracking sometimes becomes a nuisance, as do objects blanketing the action, but I looked forward to each encounter, and felt most were wonderfully balanced and challenging. This is one of those games in which you use the evade button as much as attack, and it can feel great if you get in the flow of evading or countering enemy attacks. The monster hunt missions are particularly awesome for this type of play, but I wish more than one could be active at a time.

The battles are mostly about weapon play. Magic is relegated to the role of expendable items rather than skills, meaning you won't use them much since they are low in supply, but they do pack a satisfying punch (and will even hit your characters if you aren't careful). Dont expect many summons in battle, either. Most are tied to story sequences or specific conditions. The summons are a sight to be hold, always showcasing a Godzilla-like scale and high levels of destruction.

Just as I was settling into a nice groove with the open world, the story takes a dramatic shift, and the final third of the game becomes a linear experience. I enjoyed a good portion of the content that unfolds in these chapters, but Final Fantasy XVs attempt at stealth is clunky and frustrating, and is unfortunately the backbone of the games longest chapter, which sees Noctis investigating a lead on his own. I love that Square took chances in changing up the action and tried to sync it up with story developments, but the result is the feeling that two games were mashed together  the open-world experience and the act that follows. That isnt a bad thing, but it was a startling revelation that I wasnt prepared for.

Everything you do is funneled through an awesome leveling system, where ability points are exchanged for meaningful upgrades for Noctis and crew. From unlocking powerful new techniques to smaller assists like AP points being rewarded for driving or winning chocobo races, I was always looking to do as much as possible to earn more abilities. This isnt a game of weapon or armor collecting  you wont find much of that outside of Noctis armaments, which are tied to the critical path. Most boosts in power come from ability enhancements or upgrades, a design I didnt think I would like, but ended up appreciating immensely by the time the credits ran, as my party had become a serious wrecking crew.

Final Fantasy XV is unlike any RPG or open-world experience Ive played before. It succeeds and struggles in finding its unique stance, but a few problematic designs dont hold it back from being a hell of a journey. Just days after playing it, I find myself reflecting on it fondly. The thoughts of that damn car are recessed and blanketed by Noctis journey and some of the stunning moments that unfolded within it. I wasnt a fan of Final Fantasy XIIIs sequels, but I hope Square returns with another XV or a similarly designed sequel to iron out the rough spots. Theres a solid foundation here that begs to be explored further.

Super Mario Maker on Wii U quickly became a phenomenon after its release in 2015. More so than playing and building levels, seeing the creations of others became a popular spectator sport as makers came up with the most creative and difficult ways to challenge Mario players. Much of the charm of the console game (like its easy-to-use creation tools and perfect platforming) make it over to the 3DS. However, one of its most important features did not make the transition: sharing levels online. It holds the game back, but I still found plenty to appreciate about the portable Mario Maker.

Mario Maker on Wii U carefully doled out its tutorials over the course of a few days. You had to wait to learn new lessons and get new tools. This was done to not overwhelm players, but many like me advanced their Wii Us internal clock in order to get access to all the tools faster. The tutorials of the 3DS version can be ignored, but are available all at once if you want them and the game is better for it. The optional tutorial serves as a nice refresher and features some funny dialogue between your previous trainer, Mary, and the edamame-obsessed pidgeon, Yamamura. It also puts a stronger emphasis not on just how to use the tools, but what makes a good Mario level.

Not all the creation options are available from the beginning. To unlock the advanced ones, you need to play through the new-for-3DS mode Super Mario Challenge  a collection of more than 70 new levels created by Nintendo. Each level also features a pair of medals awarded for completing specific tasks, like only defeating a certain type of enemy or getting a certain amount of coins. Going after these medals is fun, especially the stranger qualifiers that make you rethink how you play Mario. These levels are high-quality and offer incidental tutorial on what makes a good Mario level. Super Mario Challenge is a fun platformer campaign, and getting new mechanics is a worthwhile unlock. I prefer this way of expanding the tools over having to wait, or hack my Wii U.

The condensed 3DS screen makes each version of Mario, from 8-bit to modern, look great. The visual disparity between the Wii U and 3DS versions is minor, and it runs smoothly on the handheld, which makes the platforming as good as it has ever been. The switch between editing a level and playing it involves a brief load, but it does not slow things down enough to impede the process of instantly testing your creations. The touch-screen works well, too, making the act of dragging the bricks and enemies onto the screen simple and easy.

Online functionality, which is all found in the Course World mode, is present, but severely limited. You can play 100 Mario Challenge, which throws 100 random user-created levels from the Wii U version at you, or play Recommended Courses, which lets you choose from a collection of Wii U courses with positive feedback. On 3DS, seeking out specific levels or uploading your creations online is not possible. Those options made Mario Maker on Wii U the phenomenon it became, and to see them gone on 3DS is confusing and makes Course World a far less attractive destination. There simply isnt much incentive to explore Course World outside of hoping you run into an interesting course someone made with the Wii U version of the game.

The only way to share levels with friends is to do it locally or through Street Pass. Exchanging levels with the person standing next to you is easy and quick. Sharing this way does not require you to beat the levels, which means you can send your friend an impossible undertaking. Challenging your friends with difficult levels was a highlight on the Wii U version; knowing a level could be completed was an important factor in sharing levels, and to see that requirement axed is another head-scratching limitation. The lack of online sharing theoretically encourages local collaboration, but I dont enjoy trading levels back and forth to make changes. This new system makes it feel like I am passing along an unfinished painting, rather than a masterpiece meant to be appreciated.

Not being able to share levels online to get global feedback (or show off your creation to a friend across the country) holds the 3DS version of Super Mario Maker back significantly. The fun community aspect is almost entirely gone, which is disheartening. The ability to create, however, still feels great, and playing all of Nintendos new levels is worthwhile. Mario Maker encourages creativity and continues to be one of the best level creation tools ever made, but the limitations on sharing make the 3DS version an inferior experience compared to the Wii U original.

If misery factories like The Walking Dead have taught us anything, its that people are crappy and that theyre the real threats in a zombie-infested world. That may be, but some of us would rather experience the end of days like The Last Man on Earth, using the apocalypse as an excuse to ride a tricycle around while wearing a tuxedo jacket and snow pants. Dead Rising has straddled the line between horror and humor since its inception, and that hasnt changed with the fourth entry  but its not shambling in the footsteps of whats come before. Even though were back in Willamette with Frank West, Capcom Vancouver has infused the series with fresh ideas and some of the best action that its had in a decade.

Frank cant seem to stay out of the game, in more ways than one. Capcom has introduced new heroes in the Dead Rising series with each numbered entry, but they dont have the same staying power as the war photographer. Like a lot of people, I get a kick out of the lovable doofus. Sure, his jokes are enough to make dads nod appreciatively, but theres something compelling about a hero thats always just on the edge of failure at any given moment. His return to the scene of the first game is fitting, though he can explore far beyond the malls confines this time around.

Ive personally been less interested in Dead Risings storylines than in its settings and characters, and Dead Rising 4 hasnt changed my opinion. Yet another conspiracy needs investigating, with double crosses and intrigue. Why have the zombies returned, even though the infection was supposed to have been stopped with the Zombrex drug? Is the military involved? Why on earth would you live in Willamette, anyway? Frank gets pulled into the mystery by one of his photography students, and before long his instincts kick back in. Players who have been around for the long haul may recognize a few names here and there, but you can easily start the series here and not feel completely lost.

Even if the campaigns conspiracy feels a little rote, Willamette is the best playground thats been offered yet. It has everything youd expect to find in a small town, from quirky shops to hardware store and homes  and the all-new Willamette Memorial Megaplex mall. Best of all, its easy to navigate. Unlike Dead Rising 3s network of blocked-off freeways, the roads are clear  zombie hordes notwithstanding  and you can circle the map without leaving your car. You want to get out to explore the various shops and interior spaces, though. Dozens of weapon blueprints and other collectibles are hidden within the well-detailed environments, and you can do so at your leisure.

Capcom Vancouver has been streamlining the core of Dead Rising since it took over development duties with Dead Rising 2. Frank has loosened up since the first game, where he (and players) had to keep a close eye on his watch to make sure that time didnt run out. Each subsequent game in the series has relaxed those timed elements, with DR4 eliminating them altogether. Im sure there are going to be some people who cry foul at not having a rigid deadline in the background, but I appreciate the decision. Willamette is a big place with a lot to explore, and its nice to have the freedom without feeling like the meter is constantly running. You can take things at your own pace, knowing that when youre done looking for panic rooms to loot or photographing graffiti, the next mission is waiting.

Franks new exosuit is one of the games back-of-the-box selling points, and its a nice addition to his arsenal. These military suits let him hit harder and run faster, providing a brief-but-satisfying feeling of near-invincibility. Battery life is woefully short on these things, however, making them more of a temporary power-up than anything else. You can also upgrade them in silly ways, such as combining the suit with a frozen-drink dispenser, which allows you to hurl tornadoes that turn vast multitudes of zombies into undead popsicles. I get a kick out of these fleeting moments of raw power  getting a 3,000-hit combo in the exosuit is easily within reach  but finding them and a suitable upgrade opportunity is disappointingly rare. For a game thats otherwise so generous with giving players opportunities to feel powerful, it felt oddly restrictive.

The new combo weapons are fantastic. I rarely bothered to pick up mundane tools of destruction like RPGs or shotguns  you can use those in most shooters, after all. Few games give you the ability to turn enemies into piles of Christmas decorations with the wave of a wand or summon a legion of explosive garden gnomes. Improvised weapons and combo-weapon components are piled all over the world, and I rarely found myself unarmed. Something is almost always within reach, even if you have to resort to swinging a vacuum cleaner around for a little while.

More familiar tools are also given an upgrade in Dead Rising 4. Franks camera has been tricked out with a couple of new lenses, including night-vision and a spectrum analyzer. Theyre both used to great effect in new investigation-oriented gameplay, where you have to do a little bit of detective work. These sections pop up in regular intervals throughout the story, challenging the player to find a series of hidden clues in a highlighted area. You might need to get a password for a laptop, which you can find by using a special lens on a notebook and snapping a photo. Theyre a fun change of pace, though had a tough time lining up the correct shot on a few occasions.  

The most significant tweak to the series is in how different weapon types are slotted to specific buttons rather than being dumped into a common inventory. Before now, players could keep one item in their hands at a time, whether it was a shotgun, mannequin limb, or hand grenade. Now ranged, melee, and thrown weapons have dedicated buttons. Its a big change to how you play, and works nicely. When youre picking off some renegade soldiers at a distance and are swarmed by a few zombies, you can instantly knock them away with a spiked bat, then resume your shooting without having to cycle through your inventory. It comes at the cost of a little item flexibility  you cant swing a cash register at zombies and then hurl it when youre done  but I think its a small tradeoff. Killing hordes of the undead is still a visceral thrill, whether youre doing it with a spiked bat or plowing through crowds in a hybrid tractor/wheelchair.

Capcom Vancouver has diligently iterated on the franchise, revisiting and tweaking elements that havent quite worked. That makes one of Dead Rising 4s prominent stumbles stand out even more. Previous games have featured memorable encounters with special deranged survivors, which served as bosses. Theyre called maniacs here (so long, psychopaths), and they all are disappointments. Before, these challenging fights were bracketed with cutscenes, showing why a clown may have lost his mind, and then paying off the fight with a gory climax. They were surprisingly poignant at times, conveying some of the damage that people endured during the zombie outbreaks. The maniacs in Dead Rising 4 have no fanfare; they dont drop any exclusive weapons, and have no memorable qualities, aside from the fact that they might be wearing matching outfits. I always looked forward to meeting the next weirdo in the previous games, but dispatching each new maniac felt more like ticking a checklist once I realized how little they added to the world.

Players also cant play through the campaign with a co-op buddy, which is something the last few games have supported. It makes sense from a storytelling perspective, but I can understand why some fans might be disappointed. A new dedicated multiplayer mode is set exclusively in the mall; you have to level up a new character there, but the campaign and multiplayer mode have some crossover. Your blueprints carry over to multiplayer, and there you can unlock longer-lasting weapon variants that migrate back to single-player. Its a fun diversion, but the real meat of the game is still in the single-player experience.

Ive been a fan of Dead Rising since the first one, and my enthusiasm has only grown over the years. I enjoyed getting dirty in Dead Rising 4s madcap sandbox, and Id expect that people who have kept up with the series will also have a great time wreaking havoc in Willamette. Players who wanted to get into it before but were put off by the time constraints should definitely give it a shot, too. In many ways, this is the game that people who just wanted to be a one-man zombie wrecking crew were probably hoping for all along.

Everyone loves a decisive victory, but sometimes the close calls are even more exciting. Maybe the race ends with a photo finish, or a last-second point at the buzzer decides the game. Uncertainty along the way makes you appreciate success even more, and thats the feeling I was left with after completing The Last Guardian. Repetitive puzzles, uneven pacing, and imprecise controls make the journey rough. Amid the frustration, a remarkable bond gradually builds intensity; by time the credits roll, it shines through dark spots and makes The Last Guardians triumphs especially memorable.

Youve probably seen some of what The Last Guardian has to offer in other games, especially if youve played Ico and Shadow of the Colossus (the previous titles from creator Fumito Ueda). Playing as a boy exploring ancient ruins, you climb chains, pull levers, and find arcane devices. However, you are accompanied by a large mythical beast called Trico, and the presence of this companion is at the core of what makes this journey unique.

From the moment I saw Trico  injured and bound  the creature seemed alive in a way games have never captured. From its roars and apprehension as you approach to how its chest moves when it breathes, details large and small make the improbable beast seem real. The team clearly studied a veritable menagerie  dogs, cats, birds  to create Tricos captivating mannerisms. Depending on the situation, it exhibits playfulness, protectiveness, terror, and a broad range of other responses  all communicated through uncanny animation.

Trico moves through the world with surprising ease; it only got hitched up on the geometry once in my playthrough. Most of the time, it casually ducks its head under doorways, perches on pillars, and lumbers through corridors. Making a creature of Tricos size navigate this environment naturally must have been an enormous technical challenge, but it works  as long as you dont get underfoot too often. I frequently had to pause and marvel at the degree to which this massive beast seemed to belong in the fantastic locations around it.

Tricos lifelike qualities serve a purpose beyond being technically impressive. They play a critical role in building the connection at the center of The Last Guardian. This game isnt just an extended escort mission; as the boy and Trico spend more time together, their interactions create a compelling sense of camaraderie. You feed it when you can, and it helps you make impossible jumps over dangerous chasms. It fights off haunted suits of armor, and you attend to its injuries. These exchanges keep the partnership from feeling one-sided, and the relationship gets stronger as the tale unfolds, due mainly to Tricos wordless prompts and reactions. With moments ranging from light and goofy to heavy and heart-wrenching, Ive never played a game that so effectively conveys a bond between human and animal.

Unfortunately, I had to cling to that kernel of positivity frequently during my playthrough. As successful as The Last Guardian is conceptually and emotionally, the more practical elements crumble like so many ancient bridges under Tricos weight. For a game built on the sole idea of giving commands to a giant monster, the mechanics of controlling Trico are woefully inconsistent. You might tell Trico to jump to a ledge three times, only to have it stare at you or walk off in the opposite direction  then oblige on your fourth try. Getting it to obey you feels like youre managing a disobedient pet, which isnt fun.

This is more than an annoyance, since it actively interferes with your ability to progress. At one point, Trico refused my repeated requests to jump to a ledge, so I assumed I was on the wrong track and spent 15 minutes wandering around looking for other solutions. However, I was right the first time; after desperately trying the command yet again from the same position, the beast obeyed and I was able to keep going. This defiance doesnt feel like quirky part of Tricos personality; it feels like the controls arent working. While this problem doesnt taint every step of the journey, it was persistent enough to significantly hinder my enjoyment.

My other major complaint is the puzzle variety. Your tools to deal with obstacles rarely change or expand, and you can only climb so many towers or pull so many switches to open gates for Trico before the actions get repetitive. On a few occasions, you finish one puzzle, and then move on to solve a practically identical one in the next room with only slight changes. Also, the situations rarely require much thought or experimentation; the only times I got stuck were when Trico wasnt doing what it was supposed to. On the other hand, your companions presence can add some extra urgency  like saving Trico from peril, or letting it save you  which adds some variation. Even with some unsatisfying busywork, several puzzles stand out as interesting and clever (I especially liked one a ha! moment in the water), but the amount of filler between them throws the pacing off.

Though the action wears thin, the world around you never does. Crumbling pillars surround scenic pools, rickety bridges extend from towers, and magical artifacts glow with menace. I enjoyed drinking in the scenery and speculating about the connections between this game and its predecessors; just like in Ico and Shadow of the Colossus, you explore decaying structures that imply an eerie, unspoken narrative from long ago. As for Trico and the boys tale in the present, I can only say this without spoiling too much: Its a contemplative journey focused on teamwork and friendship, with minimal (yet impactful) story beats. It took me about 12 hours to finish, and the conclusion left me satisfied.

In the moments I was cursing Tricos stubbornness or rolling my eyes at another closed gate, I was disappointed in The Last Guardian. Maybe these problems are related to the games long development, but even if thats true, I cant say that the extended wait was altogether bad. All that time resulted in a polished emotional core that redeems the experience, because ultimately The Last Guardian isnt about pulling switches or leaping over gaps. Its about your smile when you see Trico doing something silly, your compassion when you watch it struggle, and your relief when the creature shows up at just the right time. Thats what you get here that you cant find anywhere else, and it is enough to make The Last Guardian worth playing.

The simplicity of Steep is its biggest advantage  and initially, its biggest deterrent. Letting players loose in a giant playground seemingly has its limitations if you're not intrinsically interested in the four available sports: skiing, snowboarding, paragliding, and wingsuiting. To be honest, I don't have an explicit interest in these sports, so I wondered exactly what the game would have in store for me. But Steep has a charm that transcends that narrow question through its world design, accessible gameplay, and transmission of a certain joie de vivre that itself is a hard concept to create and convey.

Steep's volume of challenges is admirable, as is the scale of its open world, encompassing seven mountains within the European Alps, but it's what the game does with it all that is more impressive. The timed and checkpoint races, trick score-o-ramas, and follow-me events are old hat, but the terrain of the world livens these templates. Jagged crevices that don't look like you could squeeze a quarter between them make you hold your breath as you dive through in your wingsuit. Minefields of snow-covered rocks and moguls launch you in the air and test your timing. These kinds of breathtaking and demanding stretches are not manicured only for preset challenges; wander around freely and you experience plenty of this varied and engaging topography. From here you can create your own events and see those which players you're connected with have come up with themselves.

The navigation tools and options are a vital part of enjoying the world. Players can restart challenges or see the entire world map at any point, and flitting from one thing to the next without loading is part of the fun. Not too long into the game, you can buy helicopter tickets that take you virtually anywhere, and designated drop points not only point you to fun areas but must be found as part of the game's explorer spirit. Also, being able to drop into different points and replay a run makes sure you're diving right into the good stuff. The one tool I wish Steep's world map had is a filter for specific events and locations.

Everything you do in the game contributes to an overall level system broken down into different buckets representing types of experiences like exploration, daredevil-type stuff, tricks, and even biffs. From here you can spend your earned credits on a bunch of customization items like outfits and cosmetic equipment. The system opens up the different mountains, but Steep does a good job of doling out challenges here and there even on mountains that you haven't fully unlocked, so you're not stuck grinding XP at a specific location just to get elsewhere.

The gameplay of the sports themselves fits comfortably within Steep's larger, well-crafted structure. All of them are easy to pick up and play and get to the meat of what they're about. Skiing and snowboarding offer a similar experience (it's up to you which you prefer), the wingsuit conveys its death-defying rush, and the paragliding is peaceful but also requires skill. They aren't without their shortcomings, however. I wish you could run faster on foot, there should be a quick reset feature to keep you from tumbling forever down the mountain when you fall, and it's too easy to get stuck on buildings and in some angular parts of the topography. Beyond that, Steep's trick system is about accessibility. It's not a game of Tony Hawk or Skate-style intricacies, and therefore Steep's tricks don't produce the kind of awe or self-satisfaction when performed.

Without the pure granular gratification of its tricks, Steep's feast resides in its many moments. Enjoying a beautiful vista, surviving a suicidal bombing run down the side of a mountain, or uncovering a new area and being rewarded for it  this is what keeps me coming back. One memorable moment was during a seemingly routine paragliding event following an NPC. I normally find these kinds of challenges relatively boring, but in this case I mastered riding the wind gusts up the side of the mountain through dangerous, craggy spires. Upon landing, I warmly reflected on the subtlety of an experience that not only contained tense gameplay and gorgeous scenery, but which elicited a quality of enjoying-the-moment that isn't easy to achieve.

This kind of exalted occurrence can also be found throughout the game in its daring, life-or-death sequences and even the simplicity of earning co-op XP by easily pairing up with up to three real-life friends or strangers and just exploring the world or doing tricks within proximity of each other. I honestly wasn't expecting to find such a harmony with Steep's wide world, but it's definitely there.

Superhot is one of the most intriguing first-person shooters of this year, putting you in enemy-filled rooms where time moves only when you do. The game is essentially a series of open-ended puzzles with an action-thriller vibe. How should you take out enemy making a beeline for you while two others are trying to flank you? You have a host of weapons (running the gamut from firearms to wine glasses) to create combos that clear the room. Superhot VR retains that violent puzzle design, but the mobility added by VR makes it one of the best showcases of virtual reality.

Superhot VR is not the original game with Oculus Touch compatibility thrown in. Instead, its a series of new levels designed for VR, though it can be best summed up as more of the same. That said, I cannot stress just how much being able to move around with my body in Superhots spaces goes toward making it a better game. Being able to dodge a bullet by tilting my head and then reaching to grab the pistol from my foes hand to shoot him in the belly with it before turning to throw the gun into another opponents face is spellbinding.

You can also physically move around the space with your feet, which is something the majority of shooters in VR dont let you do. Movement is limited  more baby steps and leaning than running about guns blazing  but it gives you a surprising amount of options to use against enemies. For example, you might literally stoop in real life to duck beside a table in the game and then scooch to the left to avoid a knife swing by an approaching opponent so you can deliver an uppercut a second later.

When I finally took off the headset, my hair was matted in sweat and my pulse was pounding. My only disappointment is that I wish Superhot VR offered more of what it does well. It only has a handful of levels, and they all end quickly (I finished the game in about an hour). With so little content, Superhot VR feels more like a tech demo than a full experience. The action and the intense workout make it replayable, but even with those things in mind, I was left feeling unsatisfied.

As enjoyable as it is, Superhot VR is not the essential game that VR needs to sell skeptics. However, its definitely worth checking out for those who are buying the Touch controllers for their Rift anyway. I just wish the game didnt feel like its just getting started by the time it finishes. 

Unplugging your first character from the Matrix-style tubing and setting off into the sky-high Tower of Barbs is a daunting, strange task. Scooping up mouthfuls of exotic mushrooms, battling an endless stream of foes with scavenged red-hot irons, and attempting to stave off death until the next elevator checkpoint is just the beginning of a layered adventure that pits you against deadly traps, bosses, and other players in asynchronous high-stakes combat. 

At the core of Let It Die is combat, brutal and bloody. Fighting feels like Dark Souls lite, with essential dodging and parrying as you attempt to land that goretastic finishing move on an enemy for extra rewards.  Its not as robust as a Souls title; many enemy attack patterns can be gamed with simple draw-out and parry, the lock on combat targeting is dangerous to use in melee, and the gunplay isnt fantastic. While its far from perfect, the combat (and the different playstyles it supports) is a satisfying element weaved in with the rest of the progression and reward loop.

Standard enemies in many areas can be trivialized with upgraded weapons and armor, but the tension never goes away. You must always contend with other players that have died in the area, creating haters  ghosts that patrol the area looking to kill you. Players can also hunt you directly with characters from their storage, tasking them to find and kill you. Assembling and outfitting your roster of slayers, explorers, and dungeon-climbers is fun.

This aspect keeps you on your toes at all times, and even makes farming recipes, gold, and crafting materials an adrenaline rush. You never know who you might run into, and also provides you with an option to get plenty of resources even when youre not playing the game by sending your troops out on missions to slaughter other players. The loot loop is tantalizing, and because some elements of each floor are random, it rarely gets boring.

Death is never far away, as you continue to climb the tower to face stronger opponents. Youre also getting stronger by collecting and upgrading many recipes found in the tower that provide much better options than the salvaged pipes and hammers laying about. Unlike a traditional roguelike, death doesnt need to be the end, as you can pay a price in gold to bring your character back with all their levels and loot. Alternatively  and most insidiously  when you can use real money to bring them back to life right on the spot, allowing you to continue. This also means you can just brute-force your way through with your wallet, if you can afford it. While this isnt a big deal for a single life now and then, taking on something much stronger than you costs a pretty penny. I became frustrated with the system when dying to a high-level Hunter, ranged weapon salvo, or other situations with almost no chance to survive, only to be offered this cash solution to save myself a significant amount of progress and time. 

Let It Die offers a steady trickle of cash currency for daily logins and quests, but the ease of coming back instantly over and over for a price feels like poor implementation bordering on predatory, especially as an exploitable crutch to take on bosses to make progress and gain new unlocks, take on a Jackal hunter (incredibly powerful characters with insane gear), or just prevent the pain of grinding out hundreds of thousands of gold to bring a beloved character back to play.

The gameplay systems are explained over the course of a lengthy tutorial that mostly works. The higher you progress, the more options you unlock, including higher-tier fighters, vending machine boosts, and customizable decals to augment your roster of punishers. Of particular note is the Tokyo Death Metro, which allows you to invade other players headquarters and rob them of resources. You have to fight through any defenders they may have set up in their base, but you have a chance to capture downed fighters and bring them back to your own base to drain their life essence for even more resources. This incurs the ire of the players you rob, who will likely come back and try to rescue their fallen fighter. This player-vs-player system is fun, and feels quite similar to base-bashing mobile games like Clash of Clans, with players selecting and representing a faction (states, countries, etc.) to create larger wars.

Let It Die features a compelling loot loop with plenty of customization for your roster of combatants, over-the-top and odd characters and settings, a killer soundtrack, and fun, intense exploration punctuated by frenzied combat with unusual weapons. Long load times, especially when quickly moving up and down floors in succession or engaging in Tokyo Death Metro, take a serious toll on the fun, and the fact that the seemingly fair free-to-play model allows anyone with a big bank account to smash bosses, eliminate research times, and basically just breeze through situations where non-paying players may falter is a serious hindrance to being the amazing game it could be.

The Dragon Ball Z franchise has found a comfortable (and commercially successful) spot in the genre of fighting games. That makes sense, considering the source material is about a collection of visually distinct martial artists who are constantly trying to prove who can punch the hardest. For this reason, Fusions stands apart from the typical Dragon Ball game by being an RPG with an original story. It struggles with grinding and fusing, but finds enough success to earn a qualified recommendation to Dragon Ball fans.

This tale does not follow the mainline Dragon Ball story, which has been done ad nauseam in video games. Fusions begins with two original characters (one created by the player) using the Dragon Balls to wish for the greatest martial arts tournament of all time. This creates a world not bound by the restrictions of time or dimensions, where the best fighters ever  not just those currently alive  come together to train and fight. Everyone is strangely okay with this sudden universe-affecting change, and it creates opportunities for fun dialogue, like when Goten meets and fights alongside the child-version of his father, Goku. The story functions as a good excuse to bring literally all of Dragon Balls familiar characters together (even GT ones), but does not go beyond that to craft a worthwhile narrative.

Combat is turn-based, with periodic button-mashing action when using certain special attacks. Position is important give each a tactics feel. Pushing all your enemies together, for example, can open up the opportunity to use a powerful Kamehameha blast to ring out everyone at once for additional damage. You can even bounce enemies into one another for extra damage, or into your team so they can volley the bad guys back to you. Every match plays out like turn-based bumper cars, and bouncing an enemy around your team to eventually watch them fly out of the ring is rewarding.

The battles are time-consuming, ramping up to five versus five as soon as you fill your party, which makes each fight last a long time. The fight structure is interesting and original, but the tactics you develop early carry you through the game. I enjoyed the moment-to-moment combat, especially the ping-pong nature of it all, but I checked my watch often during each fight.

Collecting and fusing characters is underwhelming. Seeing anything interesting takes too long; you encounter familiar fusions from the show early on, like Gotenks, and some new fun ones like Raditz and Nappa (Natz), but getting to the interesting stuff takes time. You can perform EX Fusions to create strange combinations with familiar characters late in the game, but meeting the requirements for these is time-consuming. Additionally, the original characters you can add to your party are all bland and not worth pursuing. Each one feels like the result of hitting the random button on the character creator. I enjoyed trying to add all the Dragon Ball staple characters to my party, but would have happily ignored the randoms if I hadnt been required to collect a few of each race in order to move to the next area.

Fusions stands out in the library of Dragon Ball video games as an interesting entry in the otherwise fighting-game-heavy collection. It is charming in its willingness to innovate within Dragon Ball, but it never quite executes on any of its pillars.

The Batman mythos has had countless interpretations and retellings across various mediums since the characters inception in 1939. Telltales series feels unique stacked up against the myriad stories of Bruce Wayne and his crusade to save the city of Gotham, and that is an achievement by itself. This interpretation of the Bat has had its ups and downs, with new villains and unexpected twists making it easy to look past an all-too-familiar formula of quick-time events and binary choices. Unfortunately, the finale lacks the potent plot punches of previous episodes and feels slipshod in comparison to the best episodes.

City of Light finds Bruce continuing the upswing he was on in Episode 4. After taking down Two Face, he squares off against the Penguin and the deadly Lady Arkham, characters who have been Telltales trump cards with this series. The Penguin, while hardly a new character, is presented as a sympathetic and wounded man, and we finally get to see the catalyst of those wounds. Lady Arkham is a menacing force with a dark past who may be the Bats' equal in wit and brawn.

The episodes major problem is that every story beat is predictable, with Batman being ridiculously dumb during certain scenes for the sake of trying to build suspense that isnt there. In one sequence, Bruce is trying to find a house where someone is being held hostage using scraps of data. After seeing literally any of the clues, the location is painfully clear  but players have to keep going for several minutes until the worlds greatest detective puts the pieces together. This happened multiple times during my playthrough, because its too clear from the get-go what everything is building toward.

City of Light has moments that shine, particularly those that focus on Lady Arkhams motivations and Bruces friendships with Harvey, Alfred, Gordon, and Selina. However, the episode is so concerned with speeding toward the ending that we dont get much time to focus on the characters. Instead, youre plaything through poorly devised investigation scenes where youre clicking around an environment trying to help poor dumb Bruce reconstruct a crime scene. Or, even worse, youre pressing buttons to dodge enemy gunshots and fists in what are effectively cutscenes with minor interactivity shoehorned in.

Predictable, often boring, and finishing off with an abrupt ending  this episode disappointed me in many ways. However, I was also drawn in by the tragic relationships that arise out of Bruces dual lives as a billionaire and the Caped Crusader. Even though City of Light doesnt make that the focal point of the episode (as the best episodes in the series have done), it still gives those elements enough time to make the experience entertaining. I wont spoil anything, but the ending is strong enough that I hope Telltale takes another shot at the Bat and builds something off this sturdy foundation. 

The Nintendo logo followed by Marios mustachioed face on my iPhone screen is a visual I didnt think I would ever see. On the few occasions Mario has left the comfort of a Nintendo platform, it ended in disaster. Its impossible to ignore the vast number of smartphone users, however, so he finally acquiesced to a mobile move. Super Mario Run is thankfully not a disaster on iOS. In fact, it left me wanting more, to a fault.

Mario is the king of platforming, and he expertly retains that reputation for his jump to mobile. Mario Run is simplified by only having one input  jump. Mario runs on his own, and the player taps the screen to jump. You can bounce back and forth between walls, hit bounce pads to vault up into the air, or land on pause buttons to achieve the proper timing to pass obstacles. You also vault over enemies and up waste-high ledges automatically, which is odd at first but proves its value (and challenge) as you play. Landing on the enemies heads becomes an opportunity to reach difficult areas or coins or give you a speed boost. Thanks to the automatic momentum when youre running full-speed, chaining Goomba stomps together and grabbing every coin, it makes you feel like youre a skilled Mario speedrunner. The feeling is rewarding, and its one I encountered often in my playthrough.

World Tour mode only has 24 levels, which is disappointing considering how short the levels are. Each of those stages has three collections of difficult-to-grab coins. When you grab the first set, you can replay the level to grab a new one, and then again to grab the last set. Finding these coins is difficult, and going for the last set rearranges the levels in interesting ways, such as adding new platforms and blocks that create new paths. I enjoyed seeking out these difficult-to-find coins initially, but grew weary of having to replay the levels, especially when it became clear that revisiting them is where Run intends players to invest most of their time.

Outside of the main campaign, Kingdom Builder and Toad Rally represent your main incentive to keep playing Mario Run after saving Princess Peach. Kingdom Builder lets you buy decorations with coins and arrange your own Mushroom Kingdom. You can open up more items in the store by adding Toads to your town by playing Toad Rally. Using tickets earned in Tour mode, Toad Rally lets you play the levels on a timer to compete for high scores with friends, collect coins, and get Toads. I found little joy in decorating my kingdom, outside of adding the expensive time-consuming unlocks that let you play as other characters, like Yoshi and Luigi.  A loop exists here (play levels, get coins and Toads, make your kingdom prettier, repeat), but it never hooked me, as the majority of unlocks are purely aesthetic.

Super Mario Run hits its stride when youre making your way through new levels. The platforming is great, and the level design surprised me on multiple occasions. In these moments, I forgot I was playing a mobile translation of Mario. That fades fast, unfortunately, as Princess Peach was kissing me on the cheek thanking me for my service just as I felt I was getting started. Rewards exist for replaying those levels repeatedly, but they simply arent enough for me.

Video games rarely delve into the realm of political critique. When they do, theyre often explicitly concerned with the present, targeting presidential candidates or recent events. Orwell is notable because it tries to pull off the tricky combo of being timeless and uncomfortably topical, and does so with mixed success. The game casts you as an investigator using Orwell, a nationwide surveillance system that can spy on anyone at any time. It lets you view emails and pictures, and allows you to listen in on intimate conversations and choose what bits of information to give to your supervisor. The supervisor then acts on that information, choosing to call the police on certain suspects or use various details youve collected during interrogations. You and your supervisor are investigating a recent terrorist bombing tied to a group of academic bloggers (yes, really).

Orwell plays out simply and repetitively, with you clicking through chat logs and pseudo-Facebook pages to collect information that you add to files. This is the entire game. Full stop. After the first hour, the process lost its novelty, making me feel as though I was just clicking through a never-ending series of menus for snippets of highlighted information on poorly fictionalized blogs instead of the astute, if somewhat apprehensive, investigator the game clearly wants me to be.

Nearly all of Orwells appeal rests on its story, which is decently plotted but poorly written when it comes to dialogue and world-building. Orwell wants to say profound and disturbing things about surveillance states, but ends up feeling more like a cursory fan summary of 1984 and Brave New World than a game that turns the themes of those books into something interesting and interactive. Orwell has little innovation to call its own, with several of the groups in the game being explicit references to creative influences. The biggest one is obviously the Orwell system being named after George Orwell, but another group is just called Thought. Its all very blunt, without subtlety or elegance. However, a few of the characters are well-developed and tragic figures (a veteran whos a single mother stands out in particular), and when Orwell spends its time focusing on them, its where the game shines.

Unfortunately, so much of the gameplay is centered around clicking through poorly-written diatribes. The majority of the characters are superficial stereotypes with no more depth than what you see when you first meet them. The dialogue veers back and forth between highly dramatic and unintentionally hilarious, and I couldnt muster any sympathy for most of the characters. Its probably not a great sign that the most memorable bit of writing in a game with a serious political agenda is oh I will never CHILL until this MADNESS STOPS. I stopped caring about the terrorist hunt halfway through simply because nearly every character is annoying and the entertainment dividends are measly.

Games should always be engaging  at least for a few moments  but I did not find myself interested in what Orwell had to say about terrorism or totalitarianism. For the bold face it puts it on, Orwell is simply content to repeat what novels and films have more eloquently said about the terrifying intersection of our lives and technology. Thats a shame, because games could tackle those heavy subjects in a thought-provoking manner. Unfortunately, Orwell doesnt.

With the abundance of zombies in entertainment, surprising people with the undead is challenging. Blood is shed, fragile mental states break, lives are lost, and somehow people press on despite the worst of circumstances. Telltale's The Walking Dead has tried to make things feel different by focusing its zombie adventure on relationships, making tough choices, and allowing the player to role-play different characters. A New Frontier continues these efforts, and they usually work, but sometimes dj vu creeps in, making scenes less impactful. You can only see so many deaths and safe havens before it all feels the same.

In season one, we took control of Lee Everett, a man who formed a touching bond with a little girl named Clementine. Season two allowed us to step into Clementine's shoes and experience the situation from a child's perspective. Telltale's third season puts us in the role of Javier, a man whose life has been on a downward spiral, with Clementine becoming more of a sidekick in his journey. In many ways, A New Frontier is about the mysteries surrounding the pair, and that's how Telltale keeps you intrigued.

The opening two episodes set the stage for the new adventure. They have everything you've come to expect from The Walking Dead: shocking deaths, intense betrayals, and split-second decisions to second-guess. Ties That Bind mostly focuses on familial bonds - the risks we take for the people we love and how far we're willing to go to put another's life above our own. The story begins with background on Javier, who comes home after taking a wrong turn in his life, but Telltale keeps the secret lingering as to exactly what happened. Then time skips ahead to Javier on the road with his niece, nephew, and sister-in-law, fleeing from a large swarm of walkers. Javier is a likeable protagonist; you can tell he cares about his family and will do whatever he can to keep them safe. However, we don't know the secrets that lurk in his past. He reminds of me Lee in that way - something feels inherently good about him, but you know he hasn't lived a perfect life.

Season three has flashback sequences which slowly provide more information about the past, including Clementine's. At the end of season two, she could end up in three different scenarios depending on your choices. These choices are addressed in the flashbacks, allowing you to see what's happened to Clementine since we last saw her. I won't spoil anything, but Clementine has definitely seen some hard times, and she's a different person because of it. I enjoyed this character development, as it's clear the apocalypse has taken its toll on her over time. However, I wish my season two ending choices mattered more than they appear so far.

Once Clementine and Javier meet, they get in bigger trouble when they encounter a dangerous and mysterious gang. The plot kept me invested enough, despite some eye-rolling scenes (like when Javier and his sister-in-law smoke pot while the kids are asleep). Be prepared for a slow drip of information; the plot setup takes awhile, but it makes the bigger reveals pay off later.

If you've played previous seasons, you know what to expect from Telltale's gameplay. QTEs execute all melee actions, and you need to aim your gun and click a button to fire at zombies. Searching the environment for objects to solve problems and chatting with characters to build relationships remains a big element. To Telltale's credit, searching is a lot better thanks to the interactive objects standing out better. I never felt like I was wandering around aimlessly just to find the next object to advance the plot. The best choices still come when you've got very limited time to respond, causing you to second-guess what you've done in the heat of the moment, especially when your options are to try to talk it through or reach for your gun. I was constantly juggling the feeling of wanting to be peaceful, but worrying if I didn't strike first, something even more awful would occur.

My biggest complaint is that some dialogue options don't lead where you intend them to. For instance, I chose to stand up for a certain character, but that led to Javier exposing one of that person's secrets and straining the relationship. It may add unpredictability, but it's a problem when characters act the opposite of what you intend.

Everything leads up to a hell of a cliffhanger, making me intrigued to see what happens next. I just hope Telltale doesn't disappoint with its result, as in the past some of the cliffhangers have had unsatisfying resolutions, not altering the story as much as I expected. While some things remain predictable, like needing to constantly look for resources or evil people showing up at the worst times, Telltale does a good job with its reveals and twists. As long as they continue to lead to interesting places, I'm on board for the rest of season three 

Developer WayForward has found success in adapting known franchises into fun, retro-inspired puzzle and platforming games, but the studio clearly has a lot of affection for its original creation, Shantae. Half-Genie Hero is the latest in the series, and though its not a perfect platformer, the detailed animation and charming dialogue show how much WayForward cares about Shantae  and it made me care about her, too.

Half-Genie abandons the pixelated, retro look of its predecessors for high-definition art, and the result is impressive. Every character, enemy, boss, and object moves with a fluidity often reserved for big-budget animated features. Just watching the characters loop through their idle animations is mesmerizing, and that motion extends to controlling Shantae, which feels great.

The visuals might be modern, but the gameplay retains the classic style WayForward has now become known for. Platforming dexterity is required, and controlling Shantae feels good enough to keep frustration at bay.  Shantae moves well and is fun to control and fight with as she whips her hair at oncoming nefarious animals and pirates. I always landed on the platform I was jumping for and hit the enemy I was aiming at thanks to precise controls.

Shantae also earns an assortment of transformations allowing her to turn into animals like an elephant to break through walls or a spider to climb on ceilings. Tracking down new transformations is what allows you to explore new areas of levels, so finding them is rewarding, and most are as fun to control as Shantae. The act of transforming is strange, however, requiring you to open up a menu and time your selection for when it appears on-screen. I often selected the wrong transformation as a result, which is annoying, but does little to impede your forward progress in the level, or plot.

Half-Genie Heros story is straightforward, with Shantae having to prevent bad things from happening, but the dialogue and characters make every conversation worth listening to. I was eager to talk to everyone and laughed often at characters poking fun at their own role in the narrative. This is the first Shantae game I have played, and I already feel a kinship to these previously established characters thanks to their wit.

Early in the game, before purchasing upgrades to make Shantae attack harder and faster, the challenge is high. Unforgiving checkpoints make the first bosses harder than they should be. The result is a difficult early game, and a breezy later game thanks to upgrades and transformations that lend Shantae new mobility options like being able to fly. Near the end, while bypassing platforming challenges and blowing past bosses, I yearned for a better difficulty balance that never surfaced.

Progress is mostly attached to replaying levels with your arsenal of expanding abilities and transformations to reach new areas. Only about half the levels are fun to revisit and explore for hidden treasures. For the other half, I struggled through multi-path areas trying to remember if I had already gone north with the monkey transformation, or if I needed to try south with the mermaid instead of the crab. Townspeople with hints and markers on each level showing you what youre missing in each stage help alleviate this annoyance, but I still occasionally dreaded revisiting levels I thought I had fully dredged.

Shantaes reliance on revisiting levels holds Half-Genie hero back, but the excellent platforming, myriad transformation abilities, and characters elevate it to an experience worth pursuing. The world of Sequin Land is a fun place to visit and I enjoyed my time there, even if I was forced to keep seeing the same sights.

The Gravity Rush series defining idea has a lot of potential. As Kat, a gravity shifter with a mysterious past, you can lift off the ground and fly (fall, technically) across massive floating cities. Though you take on several main and side missions (as in other open-world games), my favorite part of Gravity Rush 2 is falling around and collecting gems that let me upgrade my powers, since it lets me explore the lovingly detailed spaces at my leisure. It's a bittersweet joy, because while Gravity Rush 2 gives you lots of different ways to fall and fight your way through various activities, the mission design hinders the potential of its core concept as often as it embraces it.

The original Gravity Rush had a spectacular freedom of movement, and the sequel builds on that foundation by rounding out a few rough edges and offering larger, more diverse spaces. Estranged from her makeshift home, Kat contends with an entirely new set of people and floating cities, and both make the world of Gravity Rush feel lively (though you need to have played the first game to understand the later parts of the story). The short dialogue sequences do a great job of characterizing Lisa (who takes Kat in) and her band of miners. Similarly, the Jirga Para Lhao marketplaces people, stores, and flying cars make it feel lived in. Visually, these environments are a joy to zip around, and a few missions take you to more abstract, surreal, and colorful locales that seem pulled from the covers of math textbooks.

The freedom of traversal also adapts well to combat, where Kat can use airborne kicks, slide around at high speed, and use a stasis field to lob objects (and people) at her targets. Using the stasis ability as a weapon is more viable than it was in the first game, thanks to a much-needed and generous auto-aiming cursor. Not having to worry about taking precise aim makes combat less of a hassle, but I still wish I could properly lock the camera onto enemies, since the cursor still requires you to center the camera on them, and fast enemies consistently move out of view.

Gravity Rush 2 adds the ability to swap styles about halfway through the main story. The Lunar style makes you lighter and allows you to better fight nimble enemies, while the Jupiter style gives your kicks an oomph that breaks through armor and makes clearing out crowds easier. An encounter may start off with a swarm of flying enemies best taken out in Lunar style, then switch to a group of smaller, grounded foes that make a single charged-up, Jupiter-style kick ideal. These powers make combat more varied but feel underutilized, since theyre introduced about halfway into the game.

The big challenge for the Gravity Rush series has been fitting structured objectives into all the falling and wondrous locales. Gravity Rush 2 gives you plenty to do, but many of the story and side missions make the experience feel dated. Escort, eavesdropping, and stealth missions abound, and they often have you sauntering around on-foot instead of flying high, which feels like a waste of your abilities. You also have a number of missions where you need to find a small object or person within a large area by using a photo as reference, as well as missions where you have to talk to people to have them point you in the right direction, which feel arbitrary and frustrating.

These missions are far too frequent and feel like padding. The justifications offered for repeating certain objectives often point out how ludicrous these situations are, which makes them feel even more frustrating. One mission had me using my gravity stasis ability to pick up a dog that had run away from its owner, but never explained why it was only affected by the stasis field at a particular distance  something the storys plot itself points out. You can read these as attempts at humor, but rather than inspiring laughs, they usually only highlight how tedious these objectives can be.

Some of the other side content fares better, offering good reasons to trek back and forth across each city. Along with challenge missions that make better use of your powers in timed trials, you can explore the depths of otherworldly ore deposits and fight mini-bosses to get rare talismans, which you can equip to offer new bonuses like faster sliding or filling up the meter that governs your gravity powers whenever you hit an enemy. Most of the missions I undertook had me fighting the same enemy, but having to figure out how to use different environments to my advantage made these outings rewarding enough to do at a few times.

You can also engage with some online features, like taking on mission challenges from other players or using photographs other players take to find treasures, then leaving your own photo for someone else to use. The photo challenges are among my favorite parts of the game, since they make good use of the large areas and give the game more personality. They dont offer too many gems and offline players wont lose out on key moments or progress, but seeing how other players found a particular chest is a fun bonus for those playing online.

But even with all the new abilities and mission types, too much of Gravity Rush 2 is dedicated to tasks that don't make the best use of your ability to control gravity. Falling around the various locales is a lot of fun, but that doesnt assuage the nagging feeling that with better missions and less frustrating side content, this series could go from a fleeting joy to something truly great.

Rise & Shine makes a great first impression. The parade of references to popular video games is initially amusing, and the charming visual style and twist on classic run-and-gun action draws players in. With an unconventional mix of shooting, bullet-dodging, and puzzle-solving, the opening stages demonstrate plenty of potential  but the more you progress, the more you see that potential squandered.

You control a boy named Rise who takes possession of a legendary gun, Shine. The duo fights through an invading force of robots and space grunts in what looks like a traditional side-scrolling shooter, but the gameplay is more involved than it first appears (though ultimately not involved enough). With two types of ammo  standard and electric  and different ways to modify your shots  standard, radio-controlled, and explosive  the encounters demand more strategy than just mashing the fire button. You switch bullet types and prioritize the most dangerous enemies, all while avoiding enemy fire.

This sounds like a cool concept, but the execution is more frustrating than satisfying. Despite attempts to be tactical, the gunfights exist in an unenjoyable space between chaos and order. I can sense the intent to make the encounters like gun-based puzzles, but they are too hectic for precision, and the options are too limited to encourage experimentation. Standard battles boil down to a sea of robots blasting energy balls at you, while you shoot a spray of bullets back, keeping an eye out for the handful of foes (like shield-toting grunts) that demand special attention. If youre fortunate, the screen isnt completely covered with projectiles, leaving you a clear path to lob your explosive shot at the shield grunt. If youre unfortunate, your shot hits a different target  maybe even you  leading to your death and forcing you to try the fight again.

A punishing level of difficulty only makes the experience worse, and results from a combination of several factors. First and foremost, gauging where your shot will land is harder than it should be. You aim with the right stick, and though a glowing dot shows what youll hit, its extremely hard to see in the heat of combat. This makes it effectively impossible to fire with any precision when seconds matter. Sometimes you shoot that bomb out of the sky, and sometimes you shoot its parachute instead and doom yourself to a fiery death.

Beyond the controls, I never felt like I had enough options to respond to situations; Rise can dash, jump, and take cover (when available), but your different ammo types are left underused. As your foes get more complex and numerous, your strategies dont change, which makes the game less fun the further you progress. Even the final boss requires the same dodge while shooting strategy as most other fights, apart from firing a couple radio-controlled bullets when its incapacitated. Even so, I banged my head against this battle for nearly 90 minutes before finally beating it, enduring countless cheap deaths that I felt powerless to stop.  

Thats the key difference between Rise & Shine and other games that revel in player death like Dark Souls or Ninja Gaiden. In those titles, you learn something from each death, and apply that knowledge to improve your next attempt. That happens here to a minor extent, but the element of chance plays a heavier role. You can only learn so much about the enemy configurations before you just need them to not converge in a particular way, especially in the final sections. Without escalating depth or twists on the gameplay, I never felt skilled when I won a hard battle. I only felt lucky.

Im sad that my enthusiasm for Rise & Shine dropped so thoroughly during my playthrough, because its not all bad. My favorite parts are the ones that lean heavily on puzzle-solving, like using your radio-controlled bullets to avoid incoming fire and hit switches. The art direction is also impressive, with colorful hand-drawn characters and landscapes that make the action pop. I even liked some of the nods to other games, including characters who are only as different from Mario, Link, and Marcus Fenix as law requires. However, even these references get stale as you realize that the world has no identity of its own; its just an amalgam of game industry winks and nudges. That kind of erosion sums up my feelings about Rise & Shine as a whole; it feels clever and promising at first, but doesnt change its approach when the formula wears thin.

Who would have thought that an empty lot would cause so much drama? The unused patch of land is the only thing standing in the way of a massive development project in Tokyo, attracting the attention of Japans criminal underworld and forever changing the fates of two men. The property in question may be small, but Yakuza 0 is a massive open-world game that provided me with some of the most fun Ive had in years.  

Yakuza 0 is a game for fans, and also a good starting-off point for players like me, who may have been curious about the franchise but havent ever gotten into it for whatever reason. Its a prequel set in 1988 starring series fixtures Kazuma Kiryu and Goro Majima, showing off their formative years in fictionalized versions of Tokyo and Osaka. Despite moments of clear fan-service, you dont need to have played through previous games to fully enjoy Yakuza 0. I was worried that it would be like jumping into The Sopranos mid-season, but thankfully that wasnt an issue. 

You take control of both characters throughout the campaign, with the perspective shifting every few chapters. I liked experiencing events from both sides, seeing Kiryu navigate around the Tojo crime syndicate while retaining a sense of personal honor, and trying to figure out how many more indignities Majima will suffer before inevitably snapping. There arent any world-saving stakes here  youre watching thugs in garish suits squabble over piles of cash  but the strong performances made me look forward to the next well-produced cutscene and story turn. Its worth noting that the acting is all in Japanese, so be prepared to read subtitles.

Unlike most of its open-world contemporaries, you dont drive in Yakuza 0. Instead, you roam the streets of Tokyo and Osaka on foot. The campaign plays things appropriately straight, but the side activities are where the tone gets endearingly loopy. I enjoyed exploring the neighborhoods, tracking down secrets and stumbling across the often-bizarre side missions; I impersonated a TV producer, tracked down a pants-stealing bully, and helped a drug company test their experimental products. Thanks to the scale, you dont get the sense that youre seeing a lot of copy-and-paste buildings in the world, and an interactive restaurant, shop, or minigame waits on nearly every block.  

Your strolls are interrupted by frequent random battles, which highlight the arcade beat-em-up action. Both characters have several different fighting styles that can be swapped on the fly, and finding what works best for you is a big part of the challenge. Part of it is dependent on your surroundings. Are any signs or other objects handy? You could use a style that lets you pick them up and swing them at your foes. Are your opponents quick? Using an equally fast form is a good idea. My favorite was Majimas slugger style, which incorporates a baseball bat and some brutal combos that would be at home in Mortal Kombat. You can get by with button-mashing for a while, but youll have to become adept if you hope to make it through the final stage or the optional combat arena.

The fighting is a big part of the game, and its another place where Yakuzas focus on depth is evident. You can pour your cash into each styles skill tree, which unlocks new moves and abilities. I was annoyed by how my bat would sometimes careen off walls  a particular problem in alley battles  and how overpowered enemy gunmen were. Then I realized I could unlock abilities that addressed those concerns directly. The whole game is filled with abilities and upgrades that let you tweak the experience. If you grow tired of fighting, you can unlock ways to avoid encounters or diffuse them if you cant walk around your aggressors. I got a kick out of the battles, even though I punched many of the same faces repeatedly, and used the cash I got from the beatdowns to further hone my skills.

I cant recall the last time a game surprised me as much as Yakuza 0. Even after several dozen hours, Id turn a corner and stumble on a new minigame or discover a one-off game mechanic, like an homage to Virtua Cop. Not only are these diversions fun, but they also contain unexpected depth. A slot-car racing game looks simple to a fault at first, but it comes complete with a bounty of upgrades and several side missions of its own. Chance encounters with NPCs can unlock assistants that help in your money-making ventures. And I spent hours playing darts and pool, even after discovering all of their associated rewards, because I enjoyed them so much. Participating in many of these events also earns you points to further tweak the game, such as increasing the amount of cash enemies drop or recruiting employees at your hostess bar.

Yakuza 0 tries a ridiculous amount of things, and Ill be damned if it doesnt almost always succeed in its own weird way. The Yakuza series has established a cult following in the West, but it hasnt managed to break through to the mainstream. If theres any justice in this world, thats about to change.

After various spin-offs and re-releases, the buildup to Kingdom Hearts III has been nothing if not drawn out. Kingdom Hearts II launched more than a decade ago, and a whole new generation of gamers can play the early entries thanks to HD remasters on PS3 (and later this year on the PS4). Final Chapter Prologue should be the last new remaster before Kingdom Hearts III; it includes Dream Drop Distance (originally a 3DS exclusive) for the first time on the big screen. Additionally, an episode starring Aqua and a mini-movie, which shows how this crazy journey all began, are both new for this entry. As convoluted as the Kingdom Hearts storyline is, after playing through this collection, I have a clearer understanding of the narrative leading into Kingdom Hearts III. Even without the extra story context, Final Chapter Prologue is fun on its own, and Square Enix did a wonderful job making this a worthwhile collection and not just a port of Dream Drop Distance.

The most appealing part of the collection is A Fragmentary Passage, which follows Aqua after the events of Birth By Sleep. The episode took me about three hours to complete, but if you collect every treasure, you can extend that an extra hour. Aqua is one of my favorite characters due to her selflessness and determination to save the world, and getting some resolution to her story was satisfying. I won't spoil anything, but playing the episode only makes me more excited for what potential role she might play in Kingdom Hearts III.

A Fragmentary Passage takes you through various levels, each with its own gimmick. For instance, in the first world, Aqua must locate five clock gears, platforming on high ledges and rooftops, while battling enemies to achieve them. In another, she must go through mirrors and uses their reflections to create ledges or manipulate gravity. Square Enix says A Fragmentary Passage uses development tools similar to Kingdom Hearts III, showing off more expansive environments and the ease of getting around them using the air slide and a powerful double jump, so it's almost a first look at how the tech has advanced for the upcoming entry. It makes me excited for Kingdom Hearts III's exploration. The episode also shows off the smoothest combat I've experienced in the series, playing out in a faster, more fluid pace. Camera issues didn't plague me as much as past entries have, either.

While some cool boss fights, like a titan that takes up most of the landscape and a tower of Heartless that morph into different shapes, test your skills, these baddies often repeat through the short levels, and a lot of the objectives feel like busy work. You're never just locating one thing  it's usually five, or backtracking to get what you need. The journey is breezy, so if you're looking for a challenge, I recommend starting on Proud Mode. You can unlock Critical Mode after completing A Fragmentary Passage on any mode for the highest challenge, which really tests your combat prowess.

A Fragmentary Passage isn't perfect, but I'm glad Square Enix included completely new content, and dressing up Aqua by completing challenges is a fun bonus. My Aqua ended up wearing Minnie Mouse ears and having a red-and-white dress with ribbons to match. At the end of the episode, a lengthy scene (presumably from Kingdom Hearts III) allows you to finally see the characters embark on the next part of their journey, which is really what we've been waiting all this time for  to see that Kingdom Hearts' plot is moving forward instead of explaining past elements.

The collection also features an HD movie, Kingdom Hearts Back Cover, which runs a little over an hour. The movies in these collections haven't always been that impressive, and I was skeptical knowing that this was based on a mobile game's story, but Square Enix really spruced it up. It's the best movie featured in all the HD collections up to this point, and sheds worthwhile light on the series' early history and how the prophecy of darkness affected the Foretellers. The movie is a good look at what set the events of Kingdom Hearts into motion, and has some memorable betrayals and action sequences, as everyone tries to do what they think is right to save the world from its dark fate.

Dream Drop Distance HD is the part of the collection you can sink the most time into, and Square Enix has made plenty of enhancements and changes to get the 3DS game running smoothly on console. The battles are faster-paced, the camera benefits from a larger screen, and load times are improved from the original handheld version. The controls are also better on the PS4, feeling less clunky. Square Enix updated the minigames and abilities that previously used the 3DS' touchscreen, although it's not always an improvement. For instance, the reality-shift slingshot worked much better with touch controls, and petting your Dreameaters felt more natural with a stylus. Still, this version is far from just a visual upgrade (although it does look fantastic on PS4). For those who haven't played Dream Drop Distance, or want a refresher, this is the best way to go.

Final Chapter Prologue is a solid collection that I enjoyed playing, and got me more excited for Kingdom Hearts III due to how it sets up everything so wonderfully. I wish I were playing Kingdom Hearts III instead of another remaster, but this is the best collection for getting you prepped for what's ahead. 

Too often, puzzle games draw players in with mechanics that are easy to wrap your head around, but by the time you reach the end, it overly complicates the formula you originally fell in love with. Within moments of loading into each puzzle in Snipperclips, I was able to understand what my ultimate objective was. Cutting your player character down to either match a particular shape or form a tool needed to achieve a solution is gratifying from the moment you hear the clipping sound, but it's this simplicity that makes Snipperclips an enjoyable puzzler from start to finish.

To find the solutions, players stack, rotate, and even cut chunks out of cute paper characters to progress. You might have access to as few as two or as many as four characters depending on the mode, but they always possess the same abilities and form regardless of the puzzle. Almost every puzzle revolves around playing with your characters' geometry in clever ways. For example, one puzzle features a threaded nut in the middle of the stage that needs to be turned to lower an out-of-reach object. To achieve this, I had to use one of my characters to cut a hole the size of the nut through the other character's midsection, then have that character position itself like a wrench around a nut and rotate to lower the object down.

Goals like delivering heart containers to a specific location, herding stubborn fireflies in bug-catchers, and transporting fish from a pond to an aquarium are scattered through both World, a mode that can be played solo or with one co-op partner, and Party, the game's 2-to-4-player co-op mode. Though your objectives are usually clear from the start, the paths to achieving them rarely are. "Get the ball into the hoop" is immediately understandable, but the characters can't jump high enough to dunk the ball in. I probably could have timed my characters' jumps to be able to whack the ball into the hoop, but instead I cut a ball-sized scoop out of one character, stacked that character on top of the other, and did the equivalent of a jump-shot. I don't know if that was the intended solution, but that's what I like so much about the puzzles of Snipperclips: They give you the freedom to solve the puzzle your own way.

World mode challenges you to solve 45 puzzles spread across three themed worlds. The puzzle concepts rarely repeat themselves, but when they do, they add extra wrinkles to make you change your strategy. When the basketball puzzle returns later in World mode, it has a heavy bowling ball instead of a basketball, so the jump-shot no longer works. Even with these added twists, the level of difficulty never felt like it was too much or that it expanded beyond the scope of the addicting, simple gameplay.

Playing Snipperclips cooperatively adds to the fun, but also creates havoc within the puzzles that can sometimes be detrimental to your progress. Despite this, more times than not, a mistake that set us back was met with laughter from all players rather than outright frustration. Throughout the entire co-op Party mode's 21 distinct puzzles, my fellow players and I never felt overwhelmed or defeated.

However, coordinating with your teammate when the puzzle requires precision is challenging, and such a level of coordination accentuates shortcomings of the controls. Playing multiplayer can demonstrate that the movement controls can be a little too touchy for the precision some puzzles ask of players - a problem that is further brought to light by the small individual Joy-Cons of the Switch that need to be used to play in multiplayer. Luckily, that issue doesn't present itself outside of a few select puzzles.

Snipperclips' suite of offerings is rounded out by a multiplayer mode called Blitz. This minigame mode lets you challenge your friends to basketball, air hockey, and even a deathmatch mode called Dojo where you try and clip the other players into nothingness until they run out of lives. While a basketball game can descend into chaos quickly once everyone realizes you can clip players out of existence during the struggle to get the ball in the hoop, hockey and Dojo offer heated fun with four people. I enjoyed these minigame modes, but with the setup and ruleset staying the same each time you play it, Blitz mode acts as little more than a simple diversion.

Snipperclips is at its best when you bring your friends together, but I also enjoyed playing through a large collection of the puzzles by myself. Fun, clever, and overflowing with charm, Snipperclips is a delightful experience no matter how you play.

A single, deserted street is often where you start in Robo Recall. Nothing but asphalt, a few cars, some streetlights, and silence. It doesnt last long. Within moments, countless robots flood the sector, armed with shotguns, pistols, and claws primed to pull you limb from limb. Too bad for them youve got two pistols with endless ammo ready to put them all out of commission.

Essentially a new spin rendition of on-rails, light-gun shooters like Time Crisis and House Of The Dead, Robo Recall has you playing an agent who works for Roboready, a large corporation in an unnamed city that manufactures servant robots. The robots suddenly start going haywire and begin attacking citizens. You step in to recall them by destroying them and collecting their chips in whatever way you see fit.

Robo Recall gives players a degree of tactical flexibility not usually present in light-gun shooters. Yes, you can settle for shooting enemies if youre boring. You can also warp to them, reach out and grab a handle middle of their chest, and bash them into the ground over and over again before you roll the corpse into another robot like a bowling ball. If youre standing in front of an enemy shooting bullets or shells at you, you can bat the bullets back or pick them out of the air and drop them to the ground. You can also pick enemies up and use them as shields, or take the weapon from their hands and use it to blow them away.

The joy of Robo Recall is finding out what your options are, then learning how to string them together to create higher scoring combos. I had fun immersing myself in the action and experimenting  and getting rewarded for my ingenuity. For example, one of my favorite moments was when I found out I could juggle an enemy in the air with bullets, receive a specific score boost for juggling them, and then grab that same enemy out of midair with my hands and throw them into a nearby truck.

The action is intense and always up-close-and-personal. Robo Recall excels at being pure power fantasy, with its simplistic but elegant systems lets players become a sci-fi blockbuster savior in a way that just isnt possible in non-VR games. Picking up an enemy with my own hands, using him as a shield, and then returning fire with my own weapon is exhilarating. The intimacy of the violence and the demand that I constantly move my hands to orchestrate combos like some violent conductor makes what would could ho-hum action in another game thrilling here.

My only quibble is that the teleportation-based movement takes some getting used to as you jump from spot to spot. While that might sound like a bummer, the Oculus Touchs thumbsticks make it efficient once youve got the system down. It took me 15 minutes to get there, but once I had it, I was maneuvering in these massive environments with ease. Movement in the game isnt as fun as other aspects but its a lot more tolerable than moving around in other VR games is.

Racking up high-scoring combos isnt just for bragging rights; the bigger your score is at the end of a level, the more stars you gain, and stars are used to unlock weapon upgrades and attachments, like compensators for your pistol that deal higher damage or a recoil-reducer for your shotgun. This system is a smart callback to the scoreboard focus of arcade shooters, but it also gives its players tangible rewards as a smart compromise between the nostalgia of arcade cabinets and the content-driven desires of contemporary gaming.

One of Robo Recalls biggest surprises is how well-written it is. The story is simplistic, which works well since it complements the carnage-focused gameplay. A strong humorous undercurrent runs also through the campaign, skewering both corporate culture and science-fiction. For example, your A.I. assistant tells you that your office is up to minimum safety standards the first time you step inside it, and robots often scream Robot Heaven! I see it! or sing the same song HAL sings in 2001: A Space Odyssey when he dies. I was chuckling just as often as I was wowed by the actions available to me during the gameplay.

Robo Recall doesnt feel like a tech demo or minuscule offering of a promising concept. Its the only VR game Ive walked away from thinking I was satisfied with the amount and variety of content available. Its brand of action is unique and entertaining, and I havent played anything like it before. Robo Recall isnt just a great VR game. Its a great action game, period. 

Tom Clancys fictional special forces operation is no stranger to adaptability. Over the course of the franchises 15-year history, the interventionist Ghosts have stymied Russian ultranationalists, destabilized the North Korean army, and squelched a Mexican insurgency. For its latest major operation, Ubisoft throws a squad of fresh faces into the massive open world of Bolivia, tasking them with systematically dismantling the Mexican drug cartel that has turned the peaceful South American country into a cocaine-crazed narco-state.

After the U.S. embassy is bombed in the Bolivian capital and the resident DEA agent is kidnapped, the U.S. deploys a covert unit to disrupt the cartels operations and take down the charismatic and powerful leader, El Sueo. Operating off the grid, the Ghosts have no air support, supply drops, or reinforcements from the U.S. military. Instead, you (and up to three friends) must gather intelligence to identify cartel members and team up with local rebels to carry out discrete missions that undermine the smuggling, production, influence, and security branches of the Santa Blanca cartel. 

This is no overnight operation. With the cartel spread throughout 21 regions of the biggest open world Ive seen in a shooter, expect to be here a while. A gorgeous and biodiverse country, Bolivia is one of the most breathtaking settings Ive visited in video games. From active towns and quiet coca farms to lush jungle mountains and desolate salt flats, the environmental variety impresses. Thats important, because you spend a lot of time in Wildlands traveling to new destinations. You can traverse these vast regions via car, motorcycle, boat, or plane, but given the distance between objectives, the helicopter is a godsend. Grabbing one is almost always worth the effort.

Once you identify a faction head of a region, disrupting the targets operation becomes the primary objective. Each boss serves a different role in the organization, which affords Wildlands a diverse array of missions. During my 50-plus hours, I kidnapped a famous narco-corrido, destroyed submarines carrying cocaine to the United States and Europe, played cartel members against one another, and burned cocaine warehouses worth billions of dollars. The thematic diversity helps mask the fact that a large degree of missions essentially boil down to clearing or infiltrating bases of various sizes.

Whether you are raiding a small base for new weapon parts or playing a story mission, Ghost Recon Wildlands shares many basic traits with its predecessors. The tactical combat rewards carefully planning your approach, making the drone your best friend. Identifying enemy positions, alarms, and mission targets opens a variety of strategic options for experimentation. This is where cooperative play shines. 

With four players working in concert, you have so many possibilities at your disposal. Perhaps one Ghost drives into the base with a Santa Blanca vehicle, buying him or her enough cover to sneak past the front guard to disable the radar jammer and capture the target while the other players systematically eliminate the snipers perched in towers and guide him through the maze of enemies on the ground. Perhaps two Ghosts create a diversion, drawing enemies away from the warehouse you need to destroy while another Ghost skydives in with the C4.

The tactical creativity Wildlands enables is its biggest strength, but dont expect your plans to always succeed. The roaming Unidad forces may attack the cartel, rebels, or Ghosts at any given moment, making improvisation critical to surviving the messy skirmishes. You never know when Unidad is going to disrupt your covert attempts, and all hell breaks looks when they join the fray. I appreciated how this x-factor makes you think on your toes, but I came to hate how frequently they appeared out of nowhere. When a car drives off-road deep into the jungle to disrupt my squads infiltration of a compound before weve even taken the safeties off our guns, it feels cheap and gamey.  

The drop-in/drop-out cooperative infrastructure Ubisoft built for Wildlands generally works, but expect some hiccups as well. A handful of player drops happened unexpectedly, and we witnessed some nagging glitches where player characters twitch furiously or appear to run on top of a car when in actuality they are sitting in the vehicle. 

Wildlands is clearly designed for cooperative play, but you can also dismantle the cartel solo. Given the limitations of your control of A.I. companions, you cant split your team up to employ more complicated strategies, but if you upgrade the sync shot ability, they serve as a great tool for thinning the enemy herd before you go in guns blazing. They stay out of trouble for the most part, and come to your rescue if you take one too many bullets.

Upgrading your squad capabilities is one of the five skill trees in Wildlands. Though its much lighter on gadgetry than previous Ghost Recon games, you still have several worthwhile acquisitions like diversionary lures, mines, flashbangs, and giving your drone the ability to act as an EMP or explosive device. Basics like steadying your aim and increasing your bullet resistance are also worthwhile enhancements to your battle against the well-armed drug lords.  

The biggest enemy in Wildlands isnt the cartel or Unidad, its repetition. Each region breaks down into a handful of story missions and a checklist of weapons to gather, skill points to find, lore documents to reveal, and rebel side missions to complete to bolster their ability to support your efforts. By the tenth region or so, the process feels rote. Even the DJ chatter and dialogue between the different Ghosts begins recycling rather early. I wish Ubisoft Paris better differentiated the tasks you need to complete in each region instead of giving you a cookie cutter to-do for each one. 

Repetition creeps into story missions as well thanks to some rookie design mistakes. Many multi-part missions lack checkpoints, forcing you to complete the entire job from scratch if your plans go awry. Ubisoft Paris even replays cutscenes at the beginning of these missions, forcing you to skip ahead. Given the time it takes to complete Wildlands, the only antidote to the feeling of dj vu is the creative approach you bring to the experience. Tactical experimentation was key to my enjoyment. 

Repetitive gameplay loops aside, the cooperative tactical variety and vast open world make Ghost Recon Wildlands a singular experience unlike any other shooter on the market. Wildlands may not succeed with all its ambitions, but its a compelling direction for the series that points to a fertile future.

The thought of a VR title replicating my real-life golf swing is simultaneously alarming and marvelous. There are few rules to my swing  and therefore little consistency  and The Golf Club VR is able to capture it and the wide variety of outcomes it produces. This doesn't do my score card any favors, but it does point to a believable, engaging VR experience.

No matter what your swing is like, the game accommodates the user in various way to allow them to find that sweet spot between ease of use and frustration, which is crucial. This ranges from general difficulty settings that offer various levels of swing support (to help smooth out some of the more wild results) to the ability to move freely around the ball and vary your club length. The latter two are about letting you get in a comfortable stance in relation to a virtual golf ball that doesn't exist at a fixed point in physical space. This leads to some strokes where you may miss the ball, but on the whole, the game does a good job of translating slice, topped balls, and low power from your swing. The game also has the ability to convey that deep satisfaction that comes from a great shot: A tee shot that flies straight, far, and true, or a delicate chip from a sand trap. Putting is also gratifying. The speed of the greens and the need for a smooth stroke reproduces the joy and frustration of the short game.

Most VR games talk about how the medium does or does not make you sick. While The Golf Club VR does not have this concern, taking full-powered swings with a headset on your face that has a cord coming off the back isn't the most comfortable gameplay situation. Several times a round I would step on the headset cord, screwing up my follow through and yanking the headset down. While you can look around the environment and get your bearings, the headset doesn't easily allow you to get into your stance, glance down at your ball, look to the side to see the fairway or pin, and adjust your body accordingly  like you do in real-life. There are ways around this, but the headset itself is an impediment to the experience. Conversely, the game utilizes the controller very well with various commands such as being able to hold it up and see your distance to the hole and the wind, and it acts as a zoomable viewfinder.

The Golf Club VR has asynchronous multiplayer, but is very light in the features department. Apart from the laudable gameplay and the sheer volume of the courses available, the game lacks a career mode, structure, or any alternate modes. This does not detract from the gameplay, but leaves the Golf Club VR in between clubs with a par on the horizon. 

In the Mass Effect universe, the Andromeda Initiative is a bold and ambitious program. Looking for a future in uncharted territory, its volunteers leave the past behind and search for a new home in a faraway galaxy. However, despite all of the planning and preparation, cascading complications make it difficult for the Initiative to accomplish its mission beyond the Milky Way. In this way, Mass Effect: Andromeda is like the story it tells. It is a fresh start for the franchise and invigorated by a renewed sense of exploration, but a variety of problems prevent it from reaching its potential.

With Commander Shepard out of the picture, players control Ryder, a young explorer who inherits the role of Pathfinder  the one charged with finding humanity a home in Andromedas Heleus Cluster. Ryder has just the right mixture of confidence and uncertainty, so you feel capable while improvising in strange situations. Whether youre brokering peace with a new race or uncovering alien technology, you and Ryder are figuring things out together. You make some tough calls along the way, but the focus isnt on choice and consequence this time, so just about any response can feel correct.

You and Ryder have a lot of work to do. All of the potential settlement worlds have catastrophic problems, the arks carrying the Milky Ways other races have gone missing, and the conquering kett race is waging war on the natives. These looming mysteries and threats provide a fantastic foundation for Andromedas story; the opening 10 hours set the stage and build anticipation, and I could not wait to begin my Pathfinder duties in earnest.

By the 40-hour mark, the big questions like Does Andromeda have habitable planets? and What do the kett want? reach predictable conclusions. Seeing the story unfold is still cool, but you learn the Heleus Cluster isnt as full of mystery and novelty as you thought. For example, I like the designs of the new alien races, but they would look right at home in the Milky Way. Mass Effect fans are already used to bizarre creatures like krogan and hanar, and the new races dont push boundaries to fulfill the initial promise of encountering truly foreign life.

For the series that brought us adversaries like Saren and the Illusive Man, the primary foe in Andromeda is surprisingly boilerplate. He barely gets any screen time, and his goals are exactly what you would expect from an evil alien overlord. Your confrontation culminates in a confusing final mission in which everyones lives are at stake, but I cannot tell you precisely how my actions were preventing disaster, which drains the tension and triumph from the ultimate victory.

The main story isnt the only way you learn about your surroundings, since Andromedas other activities bear significant narrative weight. The open-world structure lets you pursue the stories you find interesting, putting you in charge of your journey into the unknown. These threads are where I found my favorite stories in Andromeda, and I had trouble choosing which interesting tasks to tackle next. Should I track down the Initiatives missing arks, help the crew organize a movie night, or unlock the pieces of a mystery involving the Ryder family? Seemingly inconsequential filler like going around the map to place seismic hammers can lead to big surprises, encouraging you to leave no stone unturned. I even enjoy cruising between objectives in the Nomad, since it emphasizes how large and untamed the worlds are. Cresting a ridge after a long drive and seeing an alien landscape on the horizon and the ruins of an ancient civilization below you captures the essence of exploration in Andromeda.

The wealth of content is impressive; you could probably get through main story quickly, but I logged about 60 hours to see everything that interested me, a significant part of which was ally loyalty missions. Instead of one-off excursions, these are now full quest threads. They usually begin with a conversation, steer you toward objectives spanning a couple locations, then culminate in a mission of personal importance to the character. I love this approach to fleshing out the crew, because it feels more like developing a relationship. The loyalty missions contain some excellent exchanges and scenarios that I won't spoil here, but learning more about your teammates' backstories is satisfying. Though I have my favorite companions (Jaal and Drack), Andromeda's cast isn't as memorable as its predecessors'  though that isn't as damning as it sounds considering the high bar BioWare set with those titles.

Andromeda compares most favorably to previous entries when the bullets and biotics start flying. This is the best combat has ever felt in the series. The controls are responsive, the action is fluid, and the focus on mobility leads to more dynamic encounters. You arent just hunkering down under the same crate to shoot at distant foes; different enemy types keep you moving by flushing you out, at which point you dash and jump to a new location. Though the auto-cover can be frustratingly inconsistent, you are never in the same place for too long, and using a combination of powers and weapons to buy yourself breathing room leads to many thrilling moments.

While the battles are mechanically solid, the systems feeding into them dont scale well, and ultimately make your options feel limited. Ryder isnt restricted to a particular class, so you can choose from a broad array of combat, tech, and biotic skills. At first, I was dazzled by possibilities, like draining shields with Overload before tossing off a Pull-and-Throw combo to trigger a biotic explosion. I also like the concept of profiles, which provide different static bonuses depending on how you spend your skill points. However, with dozens of options, why you should invest in one power or profile over another is unclear, and your ability to experiment is constrained since you can only equip three powers at once. You can technically switch to other power/profile sets in mid-combat, but all of the powers need to cool down once you switch, which makes it an impractical solution  especially since you can only switch powers, not weapons. Combat is at its best when you pick a small range of abilities and passive bonuses and invest in them exclusively.

Fans of Mass Effect 3s multiplayer will also have a good time with Andromeda's online offering. It uses the same combat fundamentals as single-player, but like Mass Effect 3, it has more directed progression thanks to predetermined power sets. This keeps the action distilled to moment-by-moment survival as you fight off waves of increasingly difficult foes, ideally communicating with a team of capable squadmates. It generally works well (though I ran into some lag issues when playing on pre-release servers), and I like its unobtrusive ties to Ryders main campaign. But like any multiplayer mode these days, its long-term success depends on BioWares ability to optimize stability and provide a steady stream of new content to keep players engaged. Ive had plenty of fun already, and Im looking forward to diving deeper in the coming weeks.

Lurking beneath the ups and downs of the Andromedas gameplay and story is a baffling network of technical issues, clunky menus, and unexplained systems. Finding and tracking your quests is needlessly complicated, crafting is a convoluted and multi-step affair that is rarely worth the hassle, and the limited inventory system has no reason to exist at all since you cant access your unequipped weapons and armor in the field. Stuttering framerates and audio bugs are frequent enough to be distracting. I also encountered a handful of bizarre animations, visual glitches, and broken quests that forced a reload at worst, so they didnt bother me as much as the other more persistent problems. However, all of this contributes to an overall lack of polish that gives the impression various components are not fitting together properly.

When taken as its own journey (and not in comparison to Shepards saga), Mass Effect: Andromeda is fun, and the important parts work. The narrative isnt astounding, but keeps you invested and drives you forward. The combat is entertaining whether you're in single-player or multiplayer. The crew isn't my favorite, but I like them and they have some good moments. Even with its other problems, these are the largest forces shaping your experience with Mass Effect: Andromeda, and they make it worth playing. At the same time, I was often left looking through a haze of inconveniences and dreaming about the game it could have been.

Psychonauts in the Rhombus of Ruin marks the return of Raz, Milla, Sasha, Lilly, and the rest of the psychically gifted crew, though its not completely triumphant. While reentering Double Fines imaginative world is great, its disappointing as both a VR experience and a Psychonauts spinoff.

Rhombus of Ruin starts immediately after the events of the first Psychonauts, with the team following up on a lead to rescue the kidnapped Grand Head of the Psychonauts (and Lillys dad), Truman Zanotto. Thanks to PlayStation VR, you board the Psychonauts jet as Raz and see the adventure through his eyes. Dont get too comfortable, though, since experiencing the world through a variety of perspectives is a major part of the game. In an effort to avoid making people barf their brains out, Double Fine opted against giving players the ability to move around on foot. Instead, Raz uses his clairvoyant abilities to bounce around inside other characters heads, letting players check out different viewpoints and solve a variety of point-and-click style puzzles. The conceit fits nicely with the series psychic theme, even though the constant leapfrogging eventually feels limiting and tedious.

After the plane crashes into the mysterious Rhombus of Ruin  a slightly different take on the Bermuda Triangle  the team is separated and Raz uses his powers to reunite them. Thanks to an ability-dampening substance near the ocean floor, his powers are limited and his friends are stuck in bizarre delusions. Raz is still deathly afraid of water, but he overcomes it and shifts his consciousness between various fish and aquatic creatures to track down and rescue his scattered friends.

Rescuing them isnt as easy as grabbing their lapels and shaking some sense into them. Instead, you have to figure out how best to tap into your abilities in multi-stage puzzles. In one early section, Milla wont leave a school bus thats wrecked far beneath the waves. Its filled with odd creatures, but when you jump into her head, you see that shes convinced that theyre terrified children that she has to rescue. Raz has to bring her back to reality in part by charging up the battery, which he does in a silly puzzle that involves electric eels and the bus stop sign. The puzzle is cute and clever, but as with a lot of things in the game, it relies too much on repeating the same steps. You get the single Aha! moment, and then you have to go through the motions several more times. 

The act of moving around is a particular drag, especially when youre in the open sea. You leapfrog from one critters mind to the next, waiting for the next one to swim into view. One of VRs biggest draws is its ability to transport you to new places. Here, the deep ocean looks like a towering pile of uninteresting junk. Its amusing at first, but you dont get the grand sense of scale that should accompany the location, or a dizzying sensation when you look down at the murky depths. You do get a few moments where you feel the presence of another character, such as when Milla leans in close to you or you experience a tiny location through a small creatures perspective. Ultimately, however, it doesnt take much advantage of the techs novelty, which is presumably the justification for this entire game. 

The action, too, suffers from concessions that virtual reality require. The plane crash wont make you woozy, but at the expense of it being an unexciting bummer. Even during the climax, I didnt get any real sense of peril or urgency. Instead, the entirety of the game is like moving from chair to chair, occasionally looking around for the next switch to pull or button to press. Some of the puzzles are quite clever, but theyre dragged down by the tiresome movement system and sometimes-fussy head-tracking.

I enjoyed the original Psychonauts, and it was fun to see the characters again  even though the circumstances are fairly lame. If you find yourself in the slice of the Venn diagram that overlaps Psychonauts fan and PlayStation VR owner, then it might be worth the couple of hours it takes to play through Rhombus of Ruin. Otherwise, this isnt a great showcase for VR or an introduction to the Psychonauts.

The best way to think about Everything is as a giant toybox. After the tutorial, you have no real direction or objective. Youre set free in this giant universe, with the closest thing to a goal being to control as many things as possible and check them off your list one by one. This might sound dull on paper, but I spent hours jumping from body to body to see all of what Everything has to offer. You can control pretty much any object or animal you can imagine, including cells, zebras, ants, trains, UFOs, radio towers, entire continents, garbage dumps, weeds, and even the sun. Your control over these things is limited, but still entertaining. You can gather them in a herd, surge across a landscape at high speeds, or even reproduce by making two similar objects dance. One of my favorite experiences in Everything was coming across a planet inhabited by giant pizza slices that herded beneath radio towers and taking control of some nearby arcade cabinets to make them dance for several minutes to reproduce an entire army of smaller arcade cabinets.

The limited interaction of objects doesnt bother me, because the joy of Everything isnt planted in what you can do. The experience is about seeing what new surprise awaits you around the bend. One moment you are relaxing as an ant beneath a tree, watching horses roam the lands before you, and the next you are a plane zooming across the sky of an alien world as a herd of pandas dances below you. I loved teleporting around and seeing what worlds I could explore. Sometimes Id zap into a normal, thriving city that just happened to have gorillas running wild in the streets. Other times, I would roam around a purple planet decorated with skyscrapers and pagodas as well as alien plant life.

The constant sense of wonder and surprise kept Everything from feeling like a shoddy tech demo and convinced me to keep exploring for hours on end. I couldnt stop taking pictures and videos of what I encountered as I played, ever amused by my discoveries. Whatever Everything might lack in conventional gameplay, it balances out with systems that create memorable moments of wackiness and beauty, one after another, that make the occasional bouts of boredom worth dealing with.

Everything is a goofy paradise for intrepid explorers. It goes all-in on its atmosphere, hijacking hook, and wealth of interactive objects. The gameplay has little in the way of guidance systems or tangible, material rewards to work toward, and features no story outside of collectible audio recordings from talks given by philosopher Alan Watts about the nature of existence and humanitys place in the universe. I found these audio snippets to be an irksome, clumsy attempt to shoehorn in dull philosophy 101 lectures. I dont need to be told that the universe is an astounding place, because Everything conveys this already without any narrative meddling.

Even without an overarching carrot-and-stick reward system, Everythings hijacking mechanic is strong enough to make the entire game a worthwhile venture. I was constantly coming across new objects to inhabit and new places to explore. I spent seven hours exploring various planes of existence, and I even turned on autoplay to watch an A.I. guide my entity through the universe. Despite the finite checklist of things to find, I had a surprising amount of fun seeking them out.

Everything is a niche game, stubbornly and proudly so. It embraces exploration as its one and only supporting pillar, refusing to bring in any mechanics, like crafting or gunplay, to get in the way of that thematic focus. At the risk of alienating a larger audience, the systems strive to create an experience unlike any other Ive played. Everything is not always firing on all cylinders, but conveys sheer wonder and ingenuity when it is. 

Everythings sales pitch is hard to swallow at first: Youre an entity capable of hijacking every single thing in the universe. And when I say thing, the vagueness is intentional. Animals. Houses. Microorganisms. Constellations. Everything is a strange hybrid of Journey and Katamari Damacy; it is purely about the joy and terror of exploration, both material and spiritual, which ends up being Everythings greatest asset and biggest annoyance.

You begin in a field as a randomized animal. Within moments of starting the game, I was a cow cartwheeling across the planet, gossiping with trees as they gave me tutorial information, and investigating what the world has to offer. At first glance, its not too impressive. Trees. Horses. A few rocks. When the game starts giving you abilities, however, things start to get truly interesting.

Everything has two main mechanics. The first is a shifting feature, where you can jump from one body into another. Literally any nearby object is an option, including the grass on the ground beneath your feet. The other feature is an ascension function that determines what level of the universe youre on. If you start on a planet, for example, you can either descend into an organisms molecular level or ascend all the way into space to gaze at galaxies and stars, taking control of everything in sight. These mechanics are simple, but are used in constantly entertaining and occasionally astounding ways, like when I ascended to the highest level in the game and saw a series of constellations swirling before me in silence. Sometimes I was bored out of my mind because I was rolling across a landscape and couldnt find another object, but those lackluster moments are few and far between. Everything does a solid job of peppering areas with noteworthy objects and making transitioning between spaces an easy and fast affair. 

The Elder Scrolls: Legends takes the legendary faces, races, and places of The Elder Scrolls series and transports them into a card-game format, where Dragon Priests battle Khajiit thieves and Wabbajacks can add an unpredictable element to any encounter. With five distinct attributes to explore and some features that prevent the game from being another Hearthstone or Magic: The Gathering clone, Legends is a polished, enjoyable experience.

The game board of ES:L is arranged into two lanes, the normal and the shadow. Everything happens normally on the standard lane, but units deployed to the shadow lane operate under the cloak of darkness for a turn, and cant be attacked by enemy units. Lanes allow you to play units that are more fragile or need time to set up with some safety, and add an element of strategy to things instead of just dumping all your critters in one giant pool. 

A more interesting mechanic is called prophecy, found on a variety of cards. Each time youre attacked and lose health at increments of five, youll draw the top card of your deck. The additional card resource is nice, but if it turns out that top card has the prophecy ability, you can play it instantly for free, allowing you to potentially turn the tide of battle. Prophecy cards often cost a little bit more magicka to play normally, but can give you a huge advantage when played for free, and this mechanic is especially useful to take on aggressive decks that attempt to destroy you in just a few turns. 

Cards are divided into five attributes like Strength, Intelligence, and Willpower, and you can use cards from any two attributes in a given deck. Each attribute feels unique and flavorful  Agility sports plenty of pilfering Khajiit that get stronger each time they attack an opponent, Endurance seeks to win the long game with resource dominance, Strength commands brute force and a focus on weaponry, and so on.

Players select an avatar and then venture through a variety of game modes. You can change your avatar at any time, and its more than just a visual  your random card rewards will be influenced by your race. Card-game veterans will gravitate toward ladder-climbing through the ranks of each ranked season and the arena, ES:Ls form of limited/draft play. 

The arena mode is the most interesting and enjoyable part of ES:L; picking an attribute combination to form a class, like assassin or battle mage, and then trying to build the perfect deck from a random selection of cards is challenging and engaging. The arena ruleset can even change during events, such as the Sheogorath-sponsored Chaos Arena, which adds amusing quirks and shifting rules.

ES:L is welcoming to genre newcomers, offering a substantial single-player campaign that comes with many rewards. Though the solo experience wont win any awards for storytelling, it functions as an adept tutorial that gives players all the tools they will need to succeed in multiplayer encounters. In addition to the campaign, those looking for more tutelage can participate in a single-player arena experience, which functions as a great way to start gauging card values and combinations before putting your hard-earned gold on the line against live opponents.

Perhaps ES:Ls biggest weakness is that it plays things just a little bit too safe with many familiar features and mechanics alongside its own contributions, and may have a hard time carving out its own identity in a sea of competitive digital card games.

Elder Scrolls: Legends is a solid addition to the CCG lineup, and an excellent choice for those looking for something a little different. While the cards dont really call out the feeling of exploring Morrowind or shouting at dragons, the game itself is solid enough to stand on its own.

We've been through our share of trials in Telltale's The Walking Dead, from tragic deaths to power-crazed leaders. At this point, expecting the worst is easy. On one hand, this bleakness offers great moments when something provides a glimmer of hope. On the other hand, this also means events can get predictable. Just like the survivors in The Walking Dead's world, I've grown numb to death and distrust. Above The Law treads familiar territory with its zombie fights and shady characters; it doesn't have the emotional pull or shocking revelations of previous episodes.

Above The Law picks up right where episode two left off. The group has made it to Richmond in hopes of saving Kate from her gunshot wound. What they didn't expect was running into David, Javier's brother and Kate's husband, who was thought to be long gone. The episode focuses on your relationship with David, forcing you to question his motivations for joining with the New Order  a rival group that has caused plenty of pain for Javier and company. Last we saw, David didn't have a good relationship with Javier, but he seems to have mellowed out due to the current circumstances.

Telltale does a better job at fleshing out characters and making them more morally ambiguous and not one-note in this chapter. I hated David before but started questioning my initial impression after seeing him show concern for Javier. At this point, I don't even know if I always trust Clementine, who I've been connected to since the start of the series. Everyone has done things they aren't proud of in life-or-death situations. Fragile mental states are commonplace and people can change in a heartbeat. As we know, survival often brings out the worst in people, making for selfish decisions. The core Walking Dead staples and themes are all here, but they feel recycled. After all, didn't season two put us face-to-face with corrupt leaders, survival-of-the-fittest mindsets, and in-group struggles for power?

Even so, I enjoy how Telltale is showing different sides to every character, especially the flashback sequences to explain their motivations. Seeing more of what happened at the end of season two with Clementine is a highlight, as it clarifies why she's more hardened. Additionally, observing Javier's family get more complicated adds an extra layer of drama. Learning more about characters and watching those relationships grow is still what keeps me invested, even if I have yet to find any of my choices meaningful. As a series that continually emphasizes player decisions, this is a serious problem. This has been a persistent issue for Telltale and The Walking Dead, and I've given up hoping that it will get better. In addition, the heat-of-the-moments decisions that force you to go with your gut were mostly missing here, which is a shame because those are the most effective.

As for the action, fights are losing their luster. I can only tap so many buttons to kill a string of zombies before it all starts to blend together. Telltale has tried to alleviate this by adding some different mechanics to ratchet up the intensity. For instance, as your group is fighting off a swarm from breaking through a gate, you must secure a safe place. In another scene, when you finally confront an awful person, you can choose how many times you want to hit them to illustrate your anger. Telltale has done this in the past, but putting justice in your hands feels more satisfying.

Unfortunately, Above The Law ends on a lame, predictable cliffhanger that left me cold. Now that we're in the third season, Telltale needs to stop retracing the same path and provide legitimate surprises. 

With highly conditioned athletes, strong defensive structures, and insanely talented forwards who can deflect 90 mph slap shots out of midair, the modern NHL is a high-speed, thrill-a-minute affair. But back in the 70s, hockey had a much different personality. During those glory years of the sport, enforcers settled team disputes with their fists on a nightly basis, players chain-smoked cigarettes between periods, and goaltenders wore fearsome masks eventually co-opted by iconic horror character Jason Voorhees.  V7 Entertainments Old Time Hockey celebrates this bloody-knuckled era of the sport, tapping the sensibilities of cult classic film Slap Shot for an arcade experience that delivers laughs and hits in equal measure. But like the goons it glorifies, this game ultimately ends up in the sin bin thanks to questionable decision-making and rule-breaking. 

If Old Time Hockey gets one thing right, its capturing the spirit of the era. Coaches walk the benches in polyester leisure suits while players with mullets and porn staches race up the ice delivering slap shots, slashes, and body checks. The great menu music features classics like Stompin Tom Connors The Hockey Song, and the teams play in half-empty airplane hangar hockey rinks. Bench-clearing brawls are the rule, not the exception, and if you get a player angry enough he may try to tomahawk your agitator with his wooden stick. 

Old Time Hockey offers two basic modes: exhibition versus that allows up to four players to face off in one-off competitions, and a story mode. The latter focuses on the trials and tribulations of the Schuykill Hinto Brews, a struggling minor league team that recently had three of its best players paralyzed in a wicked brawl with a rival team. You assume control of the team midseason, with the goal of lifting them out of the cellar and into the playoffs. Newspaper updates and text overlays during loading screens chronicle the mishaps of this gang of misfits, who drink and smoke during games, fistfight a mall Santa, and even trade the teams beer cooler for a new goon.

I love the set-up of the story mode, but one of the most bone-headed decisions Ive seen in modern sports games kills any hope of having a good time. For some stupid reason, basic skills are locked until the player completes force-fed tutorials, which are distributed intermittently throughout the season with no rhyme or reason. This means you cant take a slap shot, check a player, slash/hook/poke-check on defense, or even deke until you complete these lessons. This leaves you at a severe disadvantage through most of the year, and the losses pile up. 

Even once you tilt the ice in your favor by advancing through enough tutorials, winning isnt enough. You must also complete primary objectives during each game that force you to play in certain ways. For instance, in one game you may have to score enough goals to get a goalie agitated, and then initiate a fight with him. Trying to complete secondary tasks like this while also trying to win can be a maddening affair; expect to replay several games to meet these goals regardless of difficulty level. It also doesnt help that your leaky goaltender posts save percentages that routinely hover around the .500 mark. You might be better off using a garbage can as a netminder with stats like that. 

As an arcade game, Old Time Hockey is all about laying out opponents with bone-jarring hits, slashing opponents to regain puck possession, and unleashing slap shots from dangerously close distances to beat the pad-stacking goalies. In a nod to arcade classics like NBA Jam, if you plaster enough opponents in a row your team becomes on fire. While this mode is activated, your shots become harder to stop and checks turn into clotheslines worthy of the Hanson Brothers.  As heart-pumping as the action can be when youre flying up and down the ice during these flurries, expect to smack your stick against the glass in frustration as well when a teammate decides to make a poorly timed line change during an odd-man rush, or a button press fails to register, costing you a great scoring opportunity. Goalies are also problematic beyond just being sieves. They handle pucks like they are using a broom, with their only passing option being dumping the puck on either side of the net. This becomes easy to exploit once you know where the puck is going.

Given the myriad problems with the story mode, the best way to play Old Time Hockey is on the couch with your friends. The game offers retro and beer mode controls that let you simplify the inputs for a true arcade experience. Despite the aforementioned gameplay flaws, I had a lot of laughs racking up goals and dropping the gloves.  

Regardless of which mode you play, expect to suffer through several crashes. I experienced more blue screens on the PS4 than any other game Ive played this generation. 

As a fan of retro sports and arcade games, I was rooting for Old Time Hockey to succeed. I love the 70s sensibilities, and the sports gaming scene needs more varied offerings. But the slew-footed story mode and ridiculous amount of crashes make this game a healthy scratch. If V7 Entertainment can stabilize the performance, the modest $12 price tag makes this a decent option for those looking for couch co-op options, but dont expect much beyond pick-up games.

The first few hours of Persona 5 feel like settling in with the opening chapters of a massive novel. Even though you dont know the characters well or understand where the plot is going, you can feel the weight behind the narrative like hundreds of pages waiting to be read. As new threads and mechanics are introduced, that depth and sense of intent persist, and Persona 5 takes the requisite time to do its many ambitions justice. The result is an uncommonly complex and satisfying RPG in terms of both story and gameplay, and when you factor in its impeccable stylishness, Persona 5 is hard to put down.

Players step into the daily life of a taciturn (but not totally silent) high-school student and divide their time between self-improvement, building friendships, and fighting evil in otherworldly dungeons. The basic structure may be familiar to fans, but Persona 5 builds on it with an intriguing premise and fantastic cast.

You lead a group called the Phantom Thieves, supernatural tricksters who enter an alternate world to steal hearts  a phrase that boils down to making high-profile villains see the error of their ways and confess their crimes. Its a great hook, and because Persona 5 doesnt rush things, you get the satisfaction of seeing your ragtag group gradually emerge from the shadows and get more notorious as you recruit more members and pull off bigger heists. This involves infiltrating palaces, dungeons that represent a persons perceptions  like a gym teacher who sees the school as his castle where he is free to treat students like slaves. Selecting your targets, uncovering their perceptions, and dealing with the fallout from your thefts are major aspects of the story I wont ruin. I will say that the scenarios are clever and surprising, and artfully deal with complicated themes like freedom, identity, and pride. I especially like how these smaller arcs steadily rise and fall to provide bursts of narrative payoff that propel you through the larger tale.

All players experience the core exploits of the Phantom Thieves, but Persona 5 has a layer of self-directed story that is even better. When you arent taking down corrupt villains, you are managing your days in a simulation of student life in modern-day Tokyo. I love the process of optimizing my time and seeing the progress in my stats and relationships; you can fill your day with things like part-time jobs, video games, fishing, or deepening your bonds with your friends. That last one is the most important and rewarding, since the resulting scenes answer questions about the backstories and motivations of the people around you. Why is one of your teachers working a second job? Why is the Phantom Thieves biggest fan so obsessed? The cast of characters is wonderful, easily meeting the bar set by previous installments. I even found the animal mascot tolerable, which was a pleasant surprise. I was slightly less attached to the main party characters here compared to Persona 4, but the supporting cast is better, evening out the experience as a whole.

The structure lets you focus on the people and activities that interest you most, and you can rest assured that any choice you make has benefits. How all of Persona 5s pieces fit together and feed into each other is great. Stat increases (like the one you receive from finishing a burger-eating challenge) might open up more advanced ranks in your bond with a friend, which in turn could provide bonuses like shop discounts or increased experience. My favorite rewards are the ones that feed into the social aspects, like paying to raise your affinity with any character, or getting back your evening time slot after spending the day in a dungeon. Amassing a variety of combat bonuses for your party is also valuable, like auto-healing status ailments or delivering extra attacks.

As important as the social and story elements are, Persona 5 is still a turn-based RPG, which means you spend a lot of time fighting through palaces. The traditional battle system has characters using their Personas (which are like guardian spirits) against an army of monsters, with an emphasis on exploiting weaknesses. Using buffs and debuffs to set up a big offensive push is a rush, and the cool baton pass ability  which lets you pass your turn off to an ally after hitting a weakness  means you arent just selecting the same actions every turn. Im not a fan of the negotiation system for acquiring new Personas, but fusing the monsters is a fun and engaging way to let players experiment with new abilities. Even so, you are likely to do some grinding to keep your XP and money levels comfortable, which means a sense of repetition settles in sooner or later  at least until you finish your current stage and move on to the next palace.

The palaces are deliberately crafted, not randomly generated. This is a noteworthy evolution for the series, but within the larger RPG landscape, their designs still feel outdated. I appreciate the attempts to add dimension by letting players jump on top of some objects and hide behind others, but they arent consistent enough. You run though many flat, boxy corridors, and rarely encounter obstacles beyond simple puzzles and locked doors. Dont interpret that to mean the palaces arent impressive in other ways; I love their visual and thematic executions tied to their owners twisted desires, but the act of exploring them is the least interesting part of the game.

My other complaints about Persona 5 are few. Given the acclaim Persona 4 received, I can understand Atlus desire to stick to a proven formula. However, sometimes Persona 5 goes beyond giving you more of a good thing; some parts feel outright copied from the last game, with new characters occupying old roles. That wont matter if youre new to the series (Persona 5 is a great place to start, by the way), but I was disappointed to see this entry return to the well for character concepts like high-school detective prodigy and gruff-but-likable father-figure, not to mention the whole dungeons represent their owners psyches conceit. These things are still handled well, but stand out in a field of concepts that are otherwise fresh.

All of these ideas  old and new  are tied together with a cohesive and pervasive sense of style that is impossible to ignore. What Persona 5 lacks in graphical detail it more than makes up for in art direction, with all of the visual and audio elements polished to a brilliant sheen. Everything from the flashy menus to the mesmerizing soundtrack establishes an atmosphere that fits the vibe perfectly, lending the Phantom Thieves a slick and stylish mystique.

If the opening hours of Persona 5 are like starting a massive novel, then the closing hours are like finishing one, complete with the bittersweet finality of turning the last page. But it also carries an immense sense of satisfaction. After 100 hours of playing, all of my big questions were answered. I understood the characters, I knew my way around the world, and I had fun almost every step of the journey. You become a resident of Persona 5 the more you play it, and it has the rare ability to transport in a way few games can.

Although it dabbles in the surreal elements of horror, Narcosis emphasizes people over plot points. By the end, I felt more like Id finished a longform profile article or listened to a This American Life segment on deep-sea divers than accomplished something or had a grand adventure. But while that story is intriguing and its character study successful, the moments between beats are so boring that those nuggets of characterization are the only thing driving your trek across the ocean floor.

Narcosis casts you as a man in a diving suit looking for a way to jerry-rig a way back to the surface after the underwater station he works in floods, killing most of the crew. The story is told mostly through natural, well-acted dialogue in which a narrator delves into the specifics of what happened before and after the events of game. These voiceovers deftly convey the pragmatism, single-mindedness, and survivors guilt that come with working in such a dangerous profession.

Between setpiece moments, you find collectibles on each of the bodies of your dead crew members. However, because the game doesnt explicitly tell players which crew member they are controlling, the collectibles are more valuable for helping you piece that mystery together. You begin with a list and pictures of the entire crew, and as you their find bodies or personal effects, their pictures are grayed out, making it easier to deduce who you are. You dont get anything out of figuring it out before the game outright tells you, but its a great way to make collectibles worthwhile, and I enjoyed having that mystery to think about as I played.

As you piece together what happened and who you are, reality becomes warped during a few segments. Disturbing images pop up on screen, and some of the later environments dont comply with the laws of physics. These segments tie into the plot naturally, but arent captivating and often feel unnecessary. While my characters heart rate increased whenever he ran into one of these events, the character models arent detailed or animated well enough to induce any real scares. At one point, I lowered the visor of a helmet and laughed at the twisted face inside it as the trademark horror stinger played.

Apart from some light platforming, Narcosis doesnt have much action. The diving suit you wear lumbers along at a glacial pace, but the thrusters on its back make navigating the coral reefs and submarine volcanoes quicker. However, wandering around beneath the sea is usually a mellow and dull experience. Dont expect many surprises between when you find the lift you need to ride and the batteries that power it (which you need to turn on in the right order). You do have to keep an eye on your oxygen, but you find enough canisters lying around that it isnt a problem.

Most of your time is spent looking around for the right part of the environment to interact with, and the few times it deviates are often for the worse. Combat involves slashing squids or anglers with your folding knife before they latch onto your helmet. Its too simple to be interesting and too threatening to ignore, making it a huge annoyance. I learned I could evade damage if I simply turned to my side before they lunged, but I still had to gut the suckers before moving on.

Knives dont work on larger spider crabs, which creates a few stealth segments where you have to wait for them to pass by or evade them entirely. These sections are more frustrating than tense. Not only are the checkpoints infrequent enough to make multiple attempts a chore, but I had more than one issue where a crab refused to continue along its intended path, stopping them in place and preventing me from progressing.

Although Narcosis runtime is fairly short (about four hours), its padded by frustrating stealth segments and banal puzzle-solving that get in the way of some great storytelling and voice-acting. While captivating, those arent enough to make this experience worth wading through.

Spiritual successors are abundant in video games, and often developers hope to deliberately evoke nostalgia to remind us of the old days. Thimbleweed Park, a point-and-click adventure game from the co-creators of 1987s Maniac Mansion, rides on that sensation, but has enough of a modern touch to feel fresh. Thimbleweed Park knows the past wasnt always better, as it mends the flaws of classic adventure games with more logical puzzles, while still being a love letter to a bygone era. It is an enthralling, quirky game that genre enthusiasts can appreciate, but remains inviting enough for modern audiences.

Thimbleweed Park stars two FBI agents, a rookie paired with a veteran, investigating a murder in a small town. Set in the fictional Thimbleweed County in 1987, strange happenings occur as often as they would in Twin Peaks, from the whisper of signals in the nighttime to rumors of a conspiracy relating to a wealthy family. As the story unfolds, you play through flashbacks that unlock additional characters in present day. Once they are all unlocked, you switch between five drastically different protagonists, such as a foul-mouthed clown and a ghost looking for redemption. Seeing how Thimbleweeds inhabitants interact with one another is fun, and so are their reactions to the world around them.

Thimbleweed County is large, with an open-world feel as you use a town map to visit places like a rundown circus and a hotel hosting a comic convention. Exploring each area is fascinating, but as the game opened up, I sometimes felt directionless with the overwhelming number of areas to consider when solving puzzles.

Although billed as a throwback adventure, Thimbleweed Park is much more than that. It plays like a modern Maniac Mansion, with a list of clickable verbs at the bottom of the screen used to interact with objects and characters. The verb list is a clunky design abandoned by most modern adventure games, but it feels at home in this homage. Developer Terrible Toybox is aware of the shortcomings of classic adventure games, and the verb list can feel both ironic and creative in certain situations. For example, a ghost character has a unique set of verbs granting him special abilities, while other actions like despair have no use outside of making him voice morbid complaints.

With two difficulty settings, hard and casual, Thimbleweed Park mends the flaws of older adventure games without sacrificing the charm. Hard mode features clever, multi-step puzzles that can be difficult to solve but are rarely obtuse. Listening to dialogue cues, such as a reporter mentioning that she is waiting for a call, can nudge you in the right direction. In casual mode, puzzles have streamlined solutions, removing specific steps such as no longer requiring a combination to open a safe. This makes the game feel shorter, but makes puzzles easier and more approachable.

Some puzzles are character specific, while others require multiple characters to solve, such as teaming up to disrupt a radio stations broadcast or throwing an item into a sewer grate to aid a kidnapped character. These logical multi-step puzzles are where Thimbleweed Park shines most. However, inventory management between protagonists can be tedious, since you need the characters to be in the same location in order to exchange items.

Thimbleweed County is a strange place, with even stranger townsfolk who entice you with their bizarre but captivating personalities. I enjoyed warming up to a ghost tasked with scaring people in an elevator, and realizing the sheriff, coroner, hotel manager, and others all oddly seem like the same person except for slight dialect changes. Details like these make Thimbleweed Park an excellent comedic experience, enhanced by self-aware humor poking fun at the genre (including many nods to old LucasArts adventures). Gags like using Ron Gilbert as a fake name to check in to a hotel are endearing and pleasant surprises.

Metafictional satire is one of Thimbleweed Parks stronger points, but Terrible Toybox overuses clever jabs pointing out genre tropes over the course of the game. This muddles up the main storyline later on and creates plot holes, warping other aspects of the narrative to feel meaningless. At its best, Thimbleweed shakes things up in creative ways, building on its classic foundation and veering off in surprising directions; it asks you to leave the game to search elsewhere in order to solve a puzzle, and prompts you to save your progress before pushing a button that results in a game over. The latter is a brilliant, satirical take on dead-ends in adventure games, which Thimbleweed Park adamantly avoids.

Thimbleweed Park revels in its humor, and succeeds in its efforts toward better puzzle design. The narrative takes some twists and turns that didnt always hit home with me, but I enjoyed the whimsical journey nonetheless. With its stellar characters and smart puzzles, Thimbleweed Park is a joy to play from beginning to end.

In 2013, Colorado Rockies first baseman Todd Helton used the hidden ball trick to record the final out of an inning, faking a throw to the pitcher to make Matt Carpenter of the St. Louis Cardinals step off of the base. This years MLB The Show also appears to have something to hide, as prominent new features push players to steer clear of the main game to experience a retro-styled arcade mode, manage a team through a simulated gamecast, or even spend time in the locker room figuring out what a rookie says to his agent on the phone.

It turns out The Show has nothing to hide. The new diversions  as enjoyable and varied as they are  pale in comparison to the action on the field. The Show has always strived for realism, and this years game adds even more nuance and unpredictability to the mix. Most notably, the robotic instincts of players are reduced, and outcomes of swings arent determined mostly by dice rolls.

Players are not just defined by numbers this year. The introduction of a new feature called quirks gives each player a defined skill set. Brian Dozier has a Bomber quirk that allows him to hit more home runs. Adrian Beltre rarely misses the ball while swinging thanks to his 20/20 Vision quirk. Anthony Rizzo has a Rally Monkey quirk that ups his performance when the Cubs are behind. Billy Hamilton is a Bunt Master and Thief. Some players just have one or two quirks, but most superstars are stacked with them.

These boosts greatly impact the composition of an at bat, affecting how you approach each player and how the A.I. reacts. Facing Mike Trout late in a game is stressful no matter what, but knowing hes now an even greater threat in this situation ups the intensity. I just wish the quirks weren't buried in menus.

This is just one way that The Show produces new situations and outcomes. A small tweak to the ball physics also goes a long way to creating more hit types and play variables. In past games, the ball would bounce unpredictably off of walls, but not off of the bat. This year, the ball spins accurately off of the bat and at appropriate speeds to produce more slices, bloops, and rockets. Computer-controlled fielders sometimes struggle with the new trajectories, not from bad pathing, but the A.I. making bad choices.

In prior versions of The Show, a fielder would never speed up a throw; the animation was the same for a routine or close play. Fielders now show awareness for who is running and just how much time they have to make a play. The new animations for these variables are fantastic, nailing small details like accurate arm speed animations, or a panicked throw from the ground. These great plays are framed nicely within the new presentation package, consisting of stylish statistical overlays that show the speed of the throw and the path taken to track it down.

This years game excels both on and off the field. Both Road to the Show and Franchise mode received major facelifts to try and shake up the age-old foundation they are built on.

Developing an up-and-coming Major Leaguer in Road to the Show now unfolds through a documentary-like story. Outside of little interactions that define your personality through choice, the narrative didnt sync with my players performance, or deliver many points of interest. I belted 40 home runs in my first two months in double A, and my team didnt promote me. A second playthrough in those two months produced almost an identical arc. The story doesnt ruin this mode  the player development and on-the-field play are still great  but it also doesnt enhance anything. Yes, its fun to be a jerk to your coaches, but you arent given much feedback as to how that is affecting your team or your future on it.

Franchise mode fares better, and finds a clever middle-ground solution to the thoughts of simulations are boring and playing a season takes way too long. A new mode called Quick Manage allows you to have a hand in every at bat, yet the game can be completed in just five minutes. This mode functions like simulation, showing an overhead view of the diamond with players represented as colored dots. You have complete control of your player output, determining whether you pitch to contact, around the batter, or to walk them. One button press produces a result for that at bat. If you dont want to leave the outcome up to a dice roll, you can jump in and play it, and then return to the simulation or continue playing. After the initial load it takes to enter that at bat, the game wont load again, meaning you can hop in and out of instances in the blink of an eye. I grew fond of Quick Manage, and used it for most of my Franchise play.

If Quick Manage still sounds like too much, you can just play out critical situations during the season, which are prompted during the simulation  another nice addition that adds some gameplay to the menu-focused experience.

Franchise mode once again allows you to micro-manage every facet of your team, right down to the budget, scouting, and player moods. You can now select the level of complexity you want from these tasks from the outset. Easy handles just coaching, medium rolls in player development, hard adds general manager tasks. You can still turn these functions on or off, but from the outset, you can tailor the experience to your liking. Trade logic and the simulated results didnt produce too many oddities in the three seasons I simulated.

Diamond Dynasty once again makes card-collecting fun, but not from an influx of new game modes that made it so appealing last year. Those modes all return (and are largely the same), but an addictive hook comes from adding new players to your team. I know this is what this mode has always been about, but this years game offers over 2,000 to collect, spanning over 80 years of MLB history.

My team ended up having Reggie Jackson, Jeff Bagwell, and Javier Bez in the lineup. If that doesnt scream awesome to baseball fans, few things will. Again, cards arent delivered fast enough, and that dark cloud of pay-to-win hangs over the collecting. Thankfully, you still dont need to spend a dime to excel at Conquest mode, Diamond Dynastys most enjoyable avenue of play.

Sony also included a novelty Retro mode that turns back the clock to the 1980s. Designed like a game you would find on NES, the batter can freely move in the box, and the pitcher can change the trajectory of a pitch mid-flight. Balls jump off of the bat to the sound of a slide whistle, yet the visuals hold the same high level of realism as in the core game, painting a strange mishmash of today and yesteryear. Retro mode is enjoyable, but is designed mostly for head-to-head matchups against friends  offering no form of stat-tracking or season play.

MLB The Show 17 is an ambitious game that tries to dazzle players with new avenues of play and a story, but is at its best on the field, where the action has never looked or played better. After slumping last year, Sony came back firing with an experience that feels new again, even if its foundation stretches back over a decade.

Chicago Cubs fans had to wait over 100 years for their loveable losers to win another World Series. I fear R.B.I. Baseball hopefuls will be waiting just as long for another respectable version of their game. Since the series revival in 2014, R.B.I. Baseball has struggled, and few attempts have been made to improve upon it.

The joke of they just updated the rosters is no joke in R.B.I. Baseball 17. While it was nice to see a roster update available already (released on March 31), little else is new outside of the menu graphics. In fact, it offers less content. The online multiplayer that debuted in last years game is nowhere to be found.

R.B.I. Baseball 17 delivers a degree of fun in the batting and pitching mechanics  which appear to be identical to last seasons game  but still struggles severely in handling the fundamentals of the sport. In one pitching instance, two runners on base held their ground on a routine fly ball to left field. Thats what they should have done. With one out in the inning, they decided to try to advance on a second pop fly hit to almost the same position in left. My fielder didnt have to move to catch the ball. I then threw it to second for an easy double play. The A.I. malfunctioned in this instance.

I also witnessed a few A.I.-controlled players dive at balls a good six-feet away from them (see the video below). They didnt field the balls, mind you, their bodies just collapsed comically to the ground. The game also has no interest in adhering to the laws of physics, as players who have their backs to a base can flick their wrist to send a ball sailing with pinpoint accuracy at over 90 miles-per-hour to record the out. These animations look terrible, and again, bring an unintentional element of comedy to the mix.

The crowds are once again significantly smaller than the players on the field, making it look like the entire Smurf village decided to take in a game. Players are also reluctant to turn their bodies, and instead rotate their heads like demonic beings. It looks terrifying. Most of the animations are rough, and the lack of transitional animations makes it look like a glitchy mess with players automatically appearing in different stances or positions.

Dont expect to find anything new in the game modes, either. Players can still play or simulate an entire season complete with stats tracking, but you cant trade players. The only roster management is position and bench swaps. Should you complete a season and want to continue on for another year, you'll end up playing through the same schedule. The only other avenues of play are exhibition and post season (which auto-generates the teams you square off against).

R.B.I. Baseball 17 is the prime example of a series being milked to death. What started off as a great idea of bringing arcade baseball back into the limelight has turned into a bona fide disaster, the likes of which we rarely see. I feel sorry for anyone who picks up this game assuming it would be better (or even different) than last years installment.

If you've followed Mario's career, you know he and his friends are multi-talented. Aside from their world-saving skills, Nintendo's cast of characters set aside time for friendly competition in things like life-size board games, go-karting, and sports. With Mario Sports Superstars, Nintendo lumps five activities together into one package. Unfortunately, while they are all fun to play, none of them offer depth or compelling reasons to continue playing after the whistle sounds.

The game bundles soccer, baseball, tennis, golf, and horse racing together. They all provide pick-up-and-play gameplay that makes them accessible to players of any skill level. I enjoyed how quickly I was able to jump into a game and play competently against the beginner-level A.I. opponents, even pulling off special shots in my first soccer match. However, the novelty wears off fast, as you can only play essentially the same match so many times before craving more.

Each sport features solid mechanics that makes competing initially exciting. Golf and soccer are great to jump into, but my favorite sports were tennis and baseball. Those two sports not only feature the soundest mechanics, but they easily lend themselves to arcade-style action. Sadly, even those sports end up being little more than diversions. After just a few matches, the addictive loop of improvement slows dramatically as your skills plateau.

With minimal stat-tracking, a lack of a progression system, and no long-term play options like seasons or tours, I don't feel compelled to return to any of the modes outside of the allure of the simplistic gameplay and working to find the best characters for my playstyle. Luckily, that aspect does add some interesting wrinkles into the mix.

When selecting your characters, you must take into account their individual attributes. A balanced character like Yoshi might be a good foundation for your team, but you probably want to include a power hitter like Donkey Kong in your batting order in baseball, or a speed-demon like Baby Luigi as a forward in soccer. For baseball and soccer, you fill in the rest of your team with generic characters including Toads, Shy Guys, or Magikoopas. I enjoyed being able to draft a baseball team full of characters, each with different strengths to craft the perfect lineup. I wish that the other sports supported a similar layer of strategy, but they don't.

Horse racing stands out as the oddball of the group. With double jumps, boost pads, and obstacle-laden courses, horse racing is by far the most arcade-focused of an already loose and casual collection. Despite its wacky approach and dissonance with the other sports, I was surprised by how much I like horse racing thanks to its fast-paced loop of avoiding trees and hedges while collecting stars and carrots for energy. There is even an offshoot Stable mode where you can bond with your horse. I wasn't particularly drawn to Stable, but between caring for your horse, customizing it, and searching for items on walks, it's strange that this sub-mode of horse racing has more layers to it than any one sport included in Mario Sports Superstars.

You can play each of the five sports in exhibition or tournament. Exhibition allows you to customize your experience by tweaking some of the rules to your liking for one-off matches, while tournament lines you up against three consecutive opponents in a bracket-style tournament with standardized rules. You can also take the competition online, which works well if you can find players - splitting the player-base between five modes with custom search parameters seems to have hindered the pool of competitors in matchmaking.

As you play though the different modes in Mario Sports Superstars, you earn coins, which are used to purchase packs of cards. These cards unlock hidden characters and courses, but they mostly serve to fill out your fairly inconsequential collection.

Also hidden beneath the menus is a Breakout-clone that uses Amiibo cards called Road to Superstar. In this mode, you lay out up to three paddles spawned from Amiibo cards - regular Amiibos do not work - that return balls to destroy bricks and take out enemies. The mode is surprisingly challenging, but if you've played the classic Breakout game, it's nothing new.

Mario Sports Superstars delivers five fun, surface-level sports experiences in one package. Individually, these sports would be unable to stand on their own. However, as a compilation, the variety helps compensate for the lack of depth. Still, the more I played, the more this package felt like a collection of minigames than a value-packed compilation.

Following Breath of the Wild, Nintendo's nascent system is lacking in exclusives two months into its lifecycle. Mario Kart 8 was a big hit for Wii U when it released in 2014, and now the acclaimed title makes the leap to Switch. While remastered games are rarely the most anticipated releases on any system, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe includes myriad important improvements and adds portability to create the definitive version of an already great game.

At its core, Deluxe is the same great title from Wii U. Racing up a wall is still disorienting fun, and taking the perfect shot with your green shell is satisfying as ever. Even with all the hours I poured into the original Wii U release, I still love the thrill of coming from behind in the final lap to win the race. Of course, some of that is thanks to the questionable rubber-band A.I. that has always been a sticking point of the series, but fans accepted that pitfall as a series mainstay long ago.

In addition to the core game, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe includes all of the downloadable content released for the Wii U version. This means you can tackle the Animal Crossing track as Link on the Master Cycle, or unlock Mercedes-Benz kart components for Dry Bowser and race on the simple-but-awesome Excitebike course. With 48 race tracks, 8 battle arenas, 5 difficulty settings (including mirror and the furious 200cc), and 42 characters to choose from, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is a behemoth package.

Not all of the content is familiar. All-new characters like the Inklings from Splatoon, Dry Bones, and Bowser Jr. join the pool of playable racers. Players can also hold two items now (like in Double Dash), adding an extra layer of strategy. However, the biggest addition to Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is the complete overhaul of Battle mode.

In the original release of Mario Kart 8, battle mode was the major sore spot, since it made players duke it out on race tracks rather than dedicated battle arenas. With Deluxe, Nintendo has more than remedied that problem. In addition to adding new and reimagined classic battle arenas, Deluxe expands on the basic battle concept. The classic Balloon Battle, where you try and pop the balloons of other players while protecting your own, is joined by the all-new Renegade Roundup, as well as modes from past games like Bob-omb Blast, Coin Runners, and Shine Thief.

Renegade Roundup is a cops-and-robbers mode where one team tries to capture runaways before the time limit. Shine Thief is a free-for-all first where players try to possess a Shine Sprite for a set time while every other player tries to jar it loose and steal it. Coin Runners provides a fun mad-dash for gold coins. The action is fast-paced and surprisingly tense in these modes, but my favorite variant battle mode is Bob-omb Blast, a chaotic take on Balloon Battle where every item is replaced with explosive Bob-ombs. With customizable rulesets and several exciting takes on the mainstay mode, this is the battle mode fans craved.

To round out the new features, Nintendo included a couple of new accessibility options that make it easier for anyone to jump into a race. Options like smart-steer, which helps less experienced players stay on the track, and auto-accelerate, which is helpful for those unable to hold a button down for an extended period of time, combine with the optional motion controls to make this easily the most approachable entry in the franchise.

Adding to the accessibility is what the Switch brings to the table. This is a beautiful game full of vibrant colors, fast-paced action, and gorgeous visuals. Being able to not only play it on the go, but also experience no loss of performance in the process is fantastic. I loved taking it with me as I sat in a waiting room for an appointment, then sliding it back into the dock to continue my Grand Prix run on the big screen.

Multiplayer is a major part of the Mario Kart experience, and Deluxe makes it easier than ever to jump in with friends or matchmaking. I played both online and local multiplayer through wireless with no noticeable latency or framerate drops. Dumping four players onto a single Switch for splitscreen action also keeps the framerate smooth, and it's great to to simply hand off individual Joy-Con controllers and get into a race or battle.

Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is primarily a re-release of an acclaimed game from three years ago, but by adding new content and addressing the biggest complaint of the original, this version is unquestionably the best way to experience Nintendo's great racer. Battle mode is back to its original glory, and when combined with the rest of the robust Mario Kart 8 package, it creates a great addition to the fledgling Switch library.

Adult Swims Rick and Morty is a funny show, and Owlchemy Labs Job Simulator is an amusing VR game. Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality is the predictable result of mashing those two things together. If you are familiar with both of its building blocks, you already know exactly what to expect from this VR experience; it combines the anything-goes zaniness of Rick and Morty with Job Simulators core concept of interacting with nearby objects in small spaces. The result is good for a few laughs (especially for fans of the show), but it isnt much fun to play.

You are a Morty clone confined to the garage, and mess around with with a variety of dangerous and improbable devices to help Rick and Morty. The garages shelves and cupboards are packed with familiar objects and references to the show. I saw microverse batteries, Mr. Meseeks, a mundane life-simulation game, and other nods that made me smile and even laugh out loud. These moments are what Virtual Rick-ality does best, giving players a chance to interact with clever (and often recognizable) gizmos. Add in some funny exchanges between Rick and Morty  both voiced by Justin Roiland, who does their voices for the show  and you have an authentic-but-small slice of the shows universe to explore.

Virtual Rick-ality is great for I remember that! moments, but it is more successful as a virtual Rick and Morty museum than a game. You grab objects, push buttons, and occasionally shoot things, but nothing you do can be called a puzzle, since you are given explicit instructions every step of the way. From repairing computers to synthesizing matter, your progress depends on completing a linear to-do list of simple tasks. While going through the steps has funny results, the process isnt engaging; youre doing mostly the same stuff to slightly different gadgets and/or lifeforms for about 90 minutes.

Deviating from your assigned actions can be (but isnt necessarily) more entertaining than following the script. Youre given plenty of free time to monkey around in the garage, so you can hop through portals, break windows, and create bizarre fusions of everyday objects. This kind of unstructured goofing around is just as central to the experience as the main story. It doesnt feel much different, but I was often surprised and impressed to see the kinds of bizarre experiments the team at Owlchemy Labs anticipated. If you think eating or drinking something should make Clone Morty barf, it probably will.

One year after the initial launch of Job Simulator, Virtual Rick-ality doesnt do much to expand on that VR experience; Owlchemy Labs has applied a new coat of paint to an old foundation. This game achieves its modest ambitions of letting fans to dive head-first into the Rick and Morty universe. While I enjoy the faithfulness to the subject matter, Virtual Rick-ality doesnt have the depth or variety to make it successful on other levels.

By putting players in control of city-planning without annoying barriers or online connectivity requirements, Cities: Skylines has established a reputation for being the best modern city-builder when it originally released two years ago. Though the PC release relies on mouse and keyboard controls, the game has leapt to Xbox One with full gamepad support and a new streamlined menu system. The result is the premier city simulation game on consoles.

Disregarding the new controls and revamped menu system, this is largely the game that garnered so much acclaim in 2015. Starting with a small, single-road town and building up to a bustling metropolis is just as addictive as ever. I love selecting the perfect plot of land and trying to plan my roads, electrical infrastructure, and sewage systems efficiently from the start. Watching your city steadily grow as you stave off bankruptcy and other unexpected hardships is still as satisfying as gaming accomplishments come.

The big question with regards to the transition to Xbox One was with how the controls would work on a gamepad. The ease with which I built a huge, sprawling city is impressive, and a testament to how much thought the developers put into the controls. On Xbox One, each individual build menu is placed on a hotbar at the bottom of the screen, which is accessible using the d-pad. Once you select something you want to build like a road or firehouse, you easily use the left analog stick to place it.

Thanks to the snap-on mechanics that already existed with Cities: Skylines, using the analog stick to connect roads, electric lines, and water pipes is simple. Of course, as with any snap-on system, the game can sometimes estimate where you are trying to place a piece incorrectly, but with the zoom functionality placed on the gamepad's triggers, it's simple and intuitive to zoom in to get extra detailed with your placement of buildings, zones, and other structures.

If you want to dig deeper into the more detailed menus like economy and policies, as well as purchase new plots of land, you just hold the Y button and it brings up a wheel menu that allows you to easily select one of those options. Once in there, you use the bumpers to navigate to the different screens within that menu. Because of this, it's simple to bounce between the taxes, budget, loads, and income/expenses screens within the economy menu.

Unfortunately, this version is missing a key feature from the original game. You're able to click the analog stick to pause time, but you cannot speed up the simulation. On several occasions, I stepped away while the game was running to let my population and money accumulate, where in the PC version I could simply speed up time.

This edition includes the After Dark expansion, which adds new specializations, transportation options, a day/night cycle, and more to the base game. Unfortunately, this package does not include the other expansions that have come to PC, like Snowfall and Natural Disasters, which is a major missed opportunity for this to be considered the definitive version.

Some annoying performance-based bugs hindered the base game, but those have been largely squashed in the two years leading up to this version's release. Outside of a few minor hiccups in the framerate, my city's rise to prominence and inevitable out-of-control death-spiral played out without any major technical problems.

Outside of the lack of the more recent PC expansions and the simulation speed options, Cities: Skylines - Xbox One Edition is every bit as good as its PC counterpart. The mayoral planning fantasy is still intact with this version, and now easier than ever to get into. Simply put, if you're an Xbox One owner who is a fan of city-building simulation games, you need to check out Cities: Skylines.

A billion years in Earths future, many civilizations have risen and fallen, leaving behind a detritus of science that may as well be magic to the newest inheritors of the planet. One man has tapped into that wealth of lost knowledge and discerned the secret to immortality. He casts off bodies at his convenience, leaving behind new personalities in the discarded husks. You are one of these husks, and you awake to life tumbling from orbit at terminal velocity, speeding to meet the ground below. 

Torment: Tides of Numenera opens with weirdness, and doesnt wait for you to catch up. Embracing the outer edge of speculative fiction tropes, it makes for a wild (and often inscrutable) adventure into uncharted territories of existential thought, grotesquerie, and wonder. The preponderance of written dialogue and descriptions can be overwhelming, especially with only occasional traditional action scenes. Accept the novelistic approach to storytelling, and Torment rewards you with the most surreal adventure ever to call itself an RPG.

Torments isometric view and party-based structure taps into older games like Baldurs Gate and newer genre revivals like Pillars of Eternity. But in keeping with its spiritual predecessor, Planescape: Torment, Tides of Numenera is light on tactics. Instead, it is far more interested in surprising characters, lengthy conversations, and choice trees that emphasize non-combat approaches to problems. Even when it does enter a turn-based crisis, most encounters allow for solutions that dont involve killing, like stealing the eggs of the monstrous creatures threatening the city in order to gain leverage, or distracting a guard during a tour of a spaceship so a different party member can sneak onto the main computer. These infrequent conflicts are the punctuations on lengthy stretches of talking and reading, and act as an essential way to move the story forward.

In support of both conversation tools and battle scenarios, a deep leveling system provides compelling decisions, from non-combat skills like deception or quick fingers, to powerful combat-oriented nanite-infused maelstroms or cleaving sword attacks. The approach to magic items is fascinating; many tools are devastating one-use objects that can turn the tide of a conflict, and come with their own oddly captivating descriptions, as if each has its own forgotten story to tell (and many do). If anything, the depth of the systems ends up being underused due to the scarcity of crises and other rules-based situations. I would have been happy to have more opportunities to use all the abilities and trinkets I had discovered. 

Riffing off the stellar Numenera tabletop RPG, Torment launches onto its own trajectory with the fiction, and achieves a peerless approach to world-building. From characters to locations, nearly every moment is populated with some new conceptual anomaly. A merchant is slowly transforming into an insect due to the radiation of his wares. City guards are artificial constructs formed from a single year of life stolen from each of the citys citizens. An old man works alongside his younger self prior to being flung back in time. One character I met answered the query of who they were with the phrase: Some might describe me as a superpositional extraction of fundamental universal laws made tangible. And an entire major location within the game is a miles-wide extradimensional being with mouths that open into different universes. Torment delights in its bizarre personality, and most of the time that makes for great fun. But when everyone you meet is an enigmatic stranger with a twisted backstory and a reticence to share their secrets, the novelty is occasionally lost.  

Beyond its cast of astonishing characters, the chief allure is the interlocking web of quests. Torments missions often explore metaphysical quandaries, and demand attention and judicious use of character skills, like persuasion, knowledge of machinery, and more. I might aid a cabal of psychics to uncover the malevolent entity hiding in their midst, or force my character to die so he can enter a labyrinth in his own mind and help a ghostly woman hiding within. I was thoroughly engrossed in the stories at hand, but I sometimes found the constant back-and-forth running between destinations to be tedious. 

Cerebral and often disturbing, Torment is a rabbit hole of significant depth, where you can get lost in improbable imaginings of warped realities and existential angst. If you can wrap your head around a non-linear narrative all about consciousness, identity, and memory, Torment is a riveting departure from expectation.

What the Nintendo Wii lacked in horsepower, it made up for with a secret weapon: Wii Sports, a collection of simple mini-games that were so fun they had players around the globe chucking Wii remotes through their televisions. Wii Sports didn't just sell the potential of motion controls; it became synonymous with the Wii itself and fueled the system's stellar sales. 1-2-Switch is the Bizarro World incarnation of Wii Sports  a bush-league collection of gimmicks that fails spectacularly at selling the new capabilities of Nintendo's hybrid console. You may still throw your Switch controller at your TV, but for entirely different reasons.

To call 1-2-Switch a collection of "mini-games" is so charitable it should be tax deductible. While the video tutorials sport the polished production values and orchestrated campiness of an Old Navy commercial (and are just as obnoxious), the rudimentary tech demos they introduce wouldn't cut it at a middle-school game jam. Most of the activities try to divorce the motion-controlled action from the screen as much as possible (because graphics are such a clich), while sporting less depth and nuance than a game of Tic-Tac-Toe.

Quick Draw has two players raising their controllers and pressing the trigger when the announcer says "fire," awarding the win to the fastest time. Fake Draw does the exact same thing, but with a few false audio cues thrown in. Telephone times who can pick up their controller the fastest when the ringer goes off. Samurai Training challenges you to swing your controller before your opponent can react. All of them boil down to simple reflex tests, and use the same technology present in virtually every modern controller and smartphone. None of them are fun beyond the inherent entertainment of staring down a friend and seeing who can move faster, which is why the game constantly prompts you to make eye contact with your opponent  despite throwing up images and score indicators on the display that it apparently doesn't want you to look at. Either way, you and your friends are better off just playing the hand-slap game; the sting of defeat will wear off much quicker than the sting of wasting your money.

Only a few games do a good job of demonstrating the Switch's capabilities, specifically the HD rumble. Safe Crack tasks you with spinning your controller like a number dial and feeling for the correct position. The granularity of the rumble is genuinely impressive; it really feels as though you are dragging it across the pins and locking it in. However, Nintendo doesn't expand upon that seedling of a concept with different levels or variations  it's simply a race to do it three times before your opponent does. What could have been a more interesting and engaging experience instead elicits a shoulder shrug. This is also true of the scant few other games I enjoyed, like Sneaky Dice and Treasure Chest.

Other games do more to highlight the system's limitations than its potential. Copy Dance and Runway encourage you to strike silly poses, but all that really matters is the orientation of the controller. I wildly flailed a single hand during a round of Dance Off, and not only did I beat my more sincere dance opponent, I received an "A" for rhythm (I can assure you, I have zero rhythm). These games aren't fun, but their failure runs even deeper; they undermine the Switch's capabilities by relying on obvious smoke and mirrors.

The worst example of this is Table Tennis. Its inclusion should be no surprise given the immense popularity of Wii Sports' tennis mini-game, but 1-2-Switch's insistence on not using the screen for its games (even though they still kind of do) downgrades it to a simple timing exercise. The strength or angle of your stroke doesn't matter because it's all a cheap charade. Who thought it would be a good idea to try and sell the Switch with a mini-game that is inferior in every way to its 11-year-old progenitor?

Some games, like Baby, are just plain weird. It tasks you with soothing a fussy infant by cradling the Switch in your arms, boldly embracing the fact that 1-2-Switch is as enjoyable as taking care of a crying baby. Other games really scrape the bottom of the barrel (or shoe for that matter). Take Zen, which has you place a controller on the palm of your hand and then hold still for as long as possible. I actually liked Zen, because if I closed my eyes, I could forget I was playing 1-2-Switch for a few glorious minutes. If you were to actually bring 1-2-Switch's dull offerings to a rooftop party like in the Switch commercials, you're liable to get thrown off.

Given its diehard fan base, it would be easy for Nintendo to forget that the point of first-party launch titles is to sell consumers on the capabilities of a new system  especially when it has Breath of the Wild up its sleeve. But most consumers would like more than one reason to buy a new console, and 1-2-Switch is insultingly shallow. Nintendo has created an intriguing piece of hardware, but its default runner-up launch title presents the Switch like it's a cheap gimmick machine. As someone who has played more Wii bowling than I care to admit, I honestly can't imagine who I would recommend 1-2-Switch to  except maybe the parents of the video tutorial actors, as proof of their child's first and last gig. Even after you've wrung every drop of enjoyment out of Zelda, you're better off saving your $50 dollars and "playing" the Switch's Mii editor instead. 

A common commendation for games with open worlds is how alive the surroundings feel. With bustling cities and sprawling crowds, many titles draw players in by immersing them in a vibrant setting. Nier: Automata takes the opposite approach; it forges an identity in the desolation of its post-apocalyptic world. From the perspectives of multiple android protagonists, you slash through an army of hostile machines and explore a war-blasted landscape that invites you to consider the preciousness of life through its absence.

A ruined Earth populated solely by killer robots is an unlikely place for quiet and poignant moments, but Nier: Automatas ability to pull them off is its best feature. No humans remain on the planet, so machines and androids struggle to find purpose. Through a mixture of quests and brief exchanges, you encounter machines who read the works of long-dead philosophers, and androids driven mad by never-ending conflict. These scenarios are accentuated by a haunting soundtrack that establishes a perfectly bleak atmosphere. Even though some scenes are stilted and forced, the strangeness is consistent, and the characters are compelling enough to keep propelling you forward  often in spite of the gameplay.

Beyond their similarly melancholy backdrops, the connections between Nier: Automata and the original Nier are peripheral (but present for fans). Anyone can jump in with this title, and developer Platinum Games has ensured that the combat system is accessible to players of all skill levels. It looks a lot like the stylish action of Bayonetta  also from Platinum  with your characters performing flashy dodges while executing a variety of ranged and melee attacks. The format occasionally switches to a few different takes on the top-down shooter genre, making you maneuver through a screen full of projectiles. These departures are neat, but are more like minigames than fully featured encounters. The core battle system is fast-paced, third-person action that provides simple fun, but a lack of meaningful progression prevents the gameplay from being satisfying over the long haul.

You dont acquire many additional techniques that open up new angles in battle, and the differences in your heroes abilities (like hacking foes instead of attacking them) doesnt add meaningful variety. As a result, your tactics at the beginning and end of the game are largely the same. You get new weapons with varying attack speeds and combo patterns, but they dont feel different enough to justify your ability to switch between two weapon sets  especially when comparing weapons that have been upgraded (which requires some component farming) versus those that havent. The different visual effects are cool, but I rarely had a practical reason to stray from the weapon set I had invested in most heavily.

Under the hood, the main source of growth comes from equipping plug-in chips that provide a wide range of bonuses, from increased melee attacks to health regeneration. Capacity for these is limited, so the strategy comes from maximizing benefit and minimizing cost through a clever fusion system. For instance, combining two chips that give you a four-percent boost to weapon attacks is more cost-effective than equipping them individually, freeing up space for additional improvements. I like this in concept, but most plug-ins only provide percentage-based boosts to stats and abilities, so they dont do much to diversify your arsenal.

Nier: Automata also has problems with repetition, an issue that plagued its predecessor. The story is stretched over three campaigns that send you back to the same areas, and even the exact same story moments and encounters. How and why this happens is one of Nier: Automatas surprises, so I wont ruin it, but dont be fooled when the credits roll. While this unfolding narrative and its hidden endings is an interesting experiment, it spreads the world too thin and doesnt add enough new information when you revisit familiar situations. By the time I reached the true ending after nearly 40 hours (and most of the side quests), I felt like I only saw about 25 hours worth of game cut up and reconstituted in various ways.

Some parts of Nier: Automata genuinely thrilled and surprised me, but it is a constant exercise in sacrifice. Combat has improved compared to the original Nier, but it still isnt fully engaging. The progression system has cool ideas, but doesnt offer enough depth. The premise is fascinating, but it is dulled by repetition. Ultimately, tapping into the sad and unique story that flows under the surface of Nier: Automata makes these trade-offs worthwhile, but Im disappointed by how deeply its buried.

Classic Bomberman titles are known for delivering fast-paced action that is best appreciated in a multiplayer setting. Super Bomberman R tries to follow in those footsteps, but it does not achieve the same level of entertainment. This entry relies too heavily on the existing formula for success, and when it does attempt to expand on what worked in the past, it fails to do so in meaningful or memorable ways.

The multiplayer's setup is familiar: You drop bombs around a grid-based map in hopes of being the last one standing. Battles can be played locally on one Switch or multiple Switches, or online via network play. I had fun blowing up blocks, scurrying for power-ups, and blasting enemies, but the action gets old quickly. Different maps that feature distinct elements and layouts shake up the matches initially, but as the novelty of these variations diminishes, players are left with the same deathmatch-style gameplay the series has relied on for decades.

When you're playing locally, you have the option to add human or computer opponents. Playing with the latter often feels broken, as the A.I. runs instant calculations and knows exactly where to place its character the way an expert player would, and you can't tune the difficulty to be more in line with the other players in the match. Unless you're in a match full of skilled Bomberman players, you're probably better off leaving those extra spaces blank.

If you're looking to jump online and throw down against players across the globe, Super Bomberman R's online suite gives you the option to play quickplay battles with customizable rules, or the more standard league battles that let you play to level up into new, more competitive player pools. These simple options could deliver a satisfying way to play, except that network instability renders most matches unplayable due to lag. Even when I tell the game to only find those who have a "good" network connection, the matches feature some degree of latency, with the level of impact ranging from a simple half-second delay from command input to execution, to players running in place and falling completely unresponsive.

Story mode (which can be played solo or in co-op) gives you five worlds, each consisting of eight stages, a duel against an A.I. character, and a boss fight. The biggest way it attempts modify this simple formula is through additional objective types, but they are more frustrating than fulfilling. While I enjoy the most common objective of eliminating every enemy on a stage, as well as survival objectives that require you to stay alive for a set period, story mode struggles beyond that simple scope. 

Missions like finding hidden keys or throwing switches to open the exit portal do a good job of bringing new takes on Bomberman into the mix in inoffensive ways. However, when a mission variant that requires Bomberman to rescue abandoned NPCs across a given stage is introduced, the story mode reaches its low point. In these stages, you dodge enemies and collect several stranded NPCs and deliver them to a safe zone. The NPCs don't stay right on you, and are likely to get caught in bomb blasts as they trail behind, causing them to respawn in their original locations. I was thankful that these aggravating stages didn't pop up frequently, but I dreaded them when they did.

Even with these issues, Super Bomberman R's most egregious offense comes with how it handles a game over in story mode. The gems you use to purchase characters, customizations, and multiplayer maps are also tied to story mode continues. If you run out of lives and don't have enough gems to continue, you lose all your progress on that world - a hefty penalty, especially if you reach the boss fight. With no way to go back and replay earlier missions prior to finishing the whole campaign, this can leave you stuck, making multiplayer your only way to earn gems. Lowering the difficulty reduces the number of gems required to purchase a continue, but you shouldn't have to cheat the system to avoid losing progress.

When you make it through the eight acts of any given world, you engage in a duel against an A.I. opponent. These battles should be exciting, as they veer closer to the classic Bomberman shtick than any other element in the story mode, but just like in the multiplayer battles, the A.I. proves to be a whale to take down. In this mode, the computer players are particularly tough since they also have special abilities, like bombs that are drawn to you or explosives with varying fuses. This level of challenge forces you to be reckless rather than strategic, which dwindles your lives as you reach the end of the world.

The boss fights that follow each duel are inventive and fun most of the time, and they stick out as a highlight of the otherwise bland story mode. I enjoyed leaving a trail of bombs to blast a giant robot out of the sky, then lining its downed shell with explosives and watching them all detonate to do high damage. The biggest problem is that fights sometimes rely on cheap attacks that once again pull the flawed continue system into the spotlight.

With a skippable story mode, a poorly implemented in-game currency system, and shallow multiplayer offerings, Super Bomberman R is not worth your time. It's a better multiplayer game than a single-player game, but it's not a particularly good multiplayer game either.

The original Legend of Zelda on NES introduced the idea of an open fantasy world, but as the series progressed, it veered toward guiding players through a linear sequence of engaging puzzle and combat scenarios. The series has reexamined that formula in recent entries, but Breath of the Wild marks the most dramatic departure to date. You have every item you need to solve every puzzle before you reach the first dungeon. Swords break, and you exchange them often. You dont have to complete the dungeons to defeat Ganon. This is not the Zelda were familiar with, but my hesitations about deviating from a proven formula were cast aside the moment I was dropped into the new, open Hyrule.

Breath of the Wilds version of Hyrule is consistently compelling and full of discovery and reward. The sections of the world are thoughtfully designed, each an important part of the larger whole. Every trail I took, even the ones off the beaten path, led to interesting discoveries like hidden puzzles, new weapons, and strange architecture. Links map is blank at the start, meant to be filled with icons as you decide which activities to pursue, and I appreciate that it lets me define what is important.

Players are accustomed to navigating open worlds, but Links ability to climb leads to unprecedented levels of exploratory freedom. If you see something in the distance, you can walk or fly straight to it, regardless of whats in your path. Link never needs to circumnavigate. Every surface in Hyrule is an opportunity to further your adventure. Gigantic statues you might think are set-dressing are used as platforms to kick-start a flight. Mountains normally used to create barriers are climbing challenges; your reward for these tests of endurance might be a new item, but even just a new view of Hyrule can be equally valuable. I never tired of climbing toward the skies, looking out into the world, and seeing all it had to offer in detail.

Breath of the Wild is more than just a world of beautiful scenery. Its full of puzzle shrines, dungeons, and surprises. The main dungeons are smaller than those in previous Zeldas, but benefit from the compact design by never overstaying their welcome. Link takes control of each of the dungeons, rotating them to solve puzzles, or manipulating their large components to open new paths. Defeating their challenging bosses offers worthwhile rewards that affect facets of exploration and combat in exciting ways, like the ability to perform an extra powerful attack in times of need. Any disappointment that may have resulted from the main dungeons being smaller affairs is cleanly washed away thanks to the myriad shrines.

Shrines are found throughout the world, and along with each offering physical rewards they also act as unlockable fast-travel points, making each one invaluable. They all feel distinct, focusing on singular puzzle ideas and executing on them with few repeated mechanics. They are well-designed, taking full advantage of Links new time-manipulation and magnetic abilities, but also use familiar Zelda ideas, like bombs, in novel ways. The shrines are home to the most creative puzzles, and they stand comfortably alongside the best of the larger franchise.

The challenges of the game extend beyond solving puzzles and apply directly to Links survival. Breath of the Wild is not an easy game. It begins with Link waking after being asleep for 100 years, and he is quickly dropped into the world with little tutorial. Preparation is key when deciding the direction to go; the whole world is accessible, but that doesnt mean you are equipped to handle every area. Approaching the volcano without a collection of fireproof potions results in a fiery death, and not wearing the right clothes as you head north makes the frost steal your hearts. Checkpoints are friendly though, and being able to fast-travel to any shrine (even in the middle of a fight) means you can always escape danger. Despite dying often, the difficulty of the game is reasonable, and incredibly rewarding when the preparation pays off.

An important part of that preparation is equipping Link with food and weapons, which are found everywhere. Creating health-restoring dishes and potions is simple, and I enjoyed gathering ingredients between destinations to see what I could create. Combining meats and mushrooms to create heart-replenishing shish kabobs is fun, but discovering strange potions using monster parts and bugs is especially exciting.

I was never at a loss for sword, bow, or shield, but the item degradation prevents players from being precious about Links weapons. Using a sword to the breaking point and throwing it at an enemy for one final destructive blow feels good, but it always stung a little to chuck something I liked. More powerful weapons are always nearby, but the degradation mechanic is ultimately one I just learned to cope with.

Surviving in the world serves as an important build-up to the ultimate goal, which is defined early on: Defeat Ganon. In Breath of the Wild, Link is not trying to prevent the villains resurrection. Ganon is there the moment Link wakes, visible in the distance. His evil presence is clear from nearly every vantage point on the map as a disturbing, glowing evil and it has a tangible effect on the world. I felt it at every moment, whether it was by seeing Ganon in the distance or by talking to Hyrulians living under his oppression. Seeing the goal from the moment I started the game also made my final sprint to defeat Ganon hugely rewarding. When I finally decided I was ready to face Ganon, it felt like the culmination of a lifetime of preparation that ended with a hugely satisfying finale.

The rest of the story is simple, familiar to even those who have never played a Zelda game, but the way it is presented is interesting, calling into question the familiar fate of Link and Zelda in a way that made me sympathize with the struggling heroes (in spite of the underwhelming voice performances of Zelda and the supporting cast). Their mission is harder than it has been in previous Zelda games, and the pressure of that task is told well through the optional cutscenes.

Breath of the Wild is an achievement in the design of a living world. Hyrule is massive, with multiple environmental systems layered on top of a grand adventure. The only technical issue I encountered was one related to the framerate when fighting multiple enemies in busy forests. Despite the massive scope of the game, Breath of the Wild retains Nintendos knack for polish without any major technical hiccups to disrupt the experience. I was entranced by this version of Hyrule, and it surprised me at nearly every turn, from its wealth of discoveries to the way it shuns the established tropes of previous Zelda games. It represents a profound new direction for one of gamings best franchises and a new high point for open-world interactive experiences.

The video game industry was dominated by wisecracking mascot platformers for decades. Over time, that scene dried up, with few successful franchises remaining outside of Nintendo's established stable. Yooka-Laylee is a callback to the heyday of the 3D platformer, but through modernization, polish, and a whole lot of creativity, it successfully demonstrates that the genre is far from dead.

The setup is simple enough: The bad guy stole a magical book, and you need to retrieve it. That task falls upon the unlikely duo of Yooka, a bipedal chameleon, and Laylee, a small bat that rides on his back. Controlling these characters is easy, as the movement and platforming mechanics feel tight, whether you're jumping across platforms or spinning to take out enemies. The camera is solid most of the time, but has a tendency to get caught up on walls and pillars when the characters wind up in tight spaces.

The hunt for the book takes Yooka and Laylee to five distinct worlds. From a standard ice region housing a labyrinthine castle to an absurd outer space-infused pirate world, seeing where you go next is always a cool surprise. Each location holds two primary collectibles: Pagies, which grant access to new levels or expand upon existing ones, and Quills, a form of currency used to buy new abilities.

Quills are scattered everywhere, and are easy to snatch up. I liked trading them in to expand my arsenal of moves; some abilities earned late in the game even open new areas in previously explored worlds. That realization is always exciting, but the ability pool dries up too soon, meaning unless you want to be a completionist who hunts for all 1,010 Quills, the collection mechanic serves no value in the late game.

Pagies play a larger role in story progression, and thus require you to complete objectives to obtain them. The missions they are tied to vary wildly, from racing a cute cloud character to transforming Yooka and Laylee into objects like an attack helicopter or a school of piranha to complete special tasks. I love the creativity of these challenges, and the thrill that accompanied each clever or difficult objective. With 145 Pagies spread across worlds and hub area, I was never at a loss of things to do  this is a long game.

Fun homages to the genre's history are scattered everywhere. You encounter things like mine cart missions similar to those found in various Donkey Kong Country games, as well as a polygonal dinosaur named Rextro Sixtyfourus, who lets you play arcade-style minigames like a top-down kart racer and a lane-based auto-runner. These are good ways to earn a handful of Pagies during the story, but they boil down to little more than a quick nostalgic detour.

Each world also contains a unique boss battle. These encounters challenge you in ways no other sequence in the adventure does. I don't want to spoil the battles, but I enjoyed every one of them to the point where it's difficult to pick a favorite. Unfortunately, some of the battles are difficult to find; two of them are even hidden behind seemingly inconsequential side missions.

Exploration is a large part of Yooka-Laylee. As soon as you enter a world, you wander around trying to find things to collect. I had a blast branching from one area to the next, and the excitement that comes from discovering a secret area is unrivaled by anything else in this game. While the exploration-based structure works to the game's advantage the vast majority of the time, its insistence on not including modern conventions like waypoints or maps can lead to long stretches of running around in circles trying to find the next mission to complete.

The gameplay and structure lay the nostalgia on thick, but even those parts of Yooka-Laylee pale in comparison to the narrative. Whenever characters speak, the onscreen text is accompanied by grunting sounds like those found in Banjo-Kazooie. This is a charming callback at first, but when you're out in the hub world and the main villain begins taunting you repeatedly, it becomes annoying.

Yooka-Laylee liberally shatters the fourth wall by acknowledging its own existence as a game. Each time dialogue happened between characters, I eagerly awaited jokes about other games. You even get herded through quiz-style sequences; thankfully, these don't serve as roadblocks as much as they do fun allusions to games like Banjo-Kazooie. I laughed out loud at these silly references on multiple occasions, and some of the fun story moments are just as amusing as the gameplay.

Though camera problems and outdated level design are present at times, the moments of exhilaration, discovery, and satisfaction far outweigh those pitfalls. It feels like ages since I've played something like Yooka-Laylee. This is a game that was built for those who look back with fondness on the classics that spawned it, and in that regard, it delivers completely. 

The original Blaster Master wore its inspirations on its sleeve, melding the exploration of Metroid with the dungeon-crawling of The Legend of Zelda. It was a working formula that helped build a sizeable cult following. Flash forward almost three decades and Inti Creates has taken that original blueprint and used it as a foundation to build a remaster that follows faithfully in the spirit of the original game while expanding on a number of important areas. The basic world layout is similar to the original NES title, but Inti Creates has liberally redesigned several areas, created new boss fights, and added a few modern conveniences such as navigation markers. However, Blaster Master Zero often feels like its going through the motions, and its retro aesthetic feels uninspired. Despite this attempt to revitalize the brand, Blaster Master Zero feel like the product of a bygone era.

The original Blaster Master on the NES told the classic tale of a young boy named Jason, who watched his frog jump onto a discarded box of radiation in his backyard before turning into a giant mutant. Jason follows his pet amphibian into a mysterious pit only to discover a high-tech tank named Sophia the 3rd, which he uses to travel through endless caves on a side-scrolling adventure. Blaster Master Zero remixes the story into something resembling the original, except Jason is now a young scientist hunting a frog-like mutant for further study. Overall, the narrative takes itself too seriously and lacks the gonzo charm of the original NES game.

As Jason explores a series of mutant-filled caverns in his tank, he discovers weapons and upgrades that allow him to access new areas. Sophias controls are tight, and the enemy encounters constantly change, which keeps you on your toes. Unfortunately, the environments offer little sense of wonder, so I never felt encouraged to explore.

Many of the upgrades you find during this monster rampage feel mundane. Aside from a few abilities, such as a tank hover, most upgrades are slightly more powerful weapons that dont shake up the gameplay, and are really only used to punch through a variety of otherwise impenetrable barriers. Chasing each upgrade gave me a reason to push forward, but playing with those new toys was rarely as rewarding as Id hoped.

In order to acquire most of the upgrades, Jason must exit the tank and explore a series of Zelda-inspired top-town dungeons. Inti Creates even created a few new dungeons specifically for this release. These sequences provide a nice break from the world exploration and allow Jason to put his arsenal of energy blasters and grenades to the test. Unfortunately, most of Jasons gear uses a depleting resource, and the rewards for killing enemies are few, so I eventually started dodging past monsters as I raced to the end of each dungeon. These on-foot sections dont feature many puzzles or other unique gameplay elements, so I often felt like I was feeling out the dead-ends until I encountered a boss. Adding a series of Zelda-inspired dungeons into the mix-up is a great idea, but Blaster Master Zero doesnt do enough with these sequences to make them exciting.

For some, Blaster Master Zero might be an appealing trip down memory lane, but for those without an affinity for the original, this remaster wont leave an impression. Blaster Master Zero features a few welcome additions  like retooled boss fights and more generous save points  but these changes arent enough to give this release a modern feel. Despite its facelift, Blaster Master Zero is a blast from the past that feels like a bit of a relic.

In a time where virtually everyone has had their fill of internet trolls and inflammatory comments, Drawn To Death stands out as the sterling answer to a question no one has ever asked: How can we make online gaming even more obnoxious and offensive than it already is?

If you know Drawn To Death as "that notebook game," then congratulations: You've identified the one thing that truly makes the four-player online arena shooter stand out. While the student-doodle aesthetic is certainly novel, it takes its toll on the gameplay. At best, the on-screen action is muddled by sparsely detailed visuals and ugly HUD. At worst, it's a literal eyesore that leaves you with a headache. Nevertheless, Drawn To Death doubles down on the angsty teen concept with buckets of immature gags and insults, and from there it's a race to see what makes you stop playing first.

I don't want to spend too much time harping on Drawn To Death's odious presentation, because it's exactly the type of attention the game so desperately craves. Everything from the insult-spewing tutorial toad to the obscenity-shouting announcer is designed to titillate and offend. There's a reason for that: Beneath the constant stream of aural and visual vulgarities, Drawn To Death is a woefully underwhelming arena shooter. Sophomoric jokes  like a gaping, in-game rectum that houses a health power-up  hope to distract you from Drawn To Death's myriad inadequacies. These include a small character roster, by-the-numbers game modes, and a four-player match size limit  which the game still has trouble filling despite Sony giving it away free to everyone with a PlayStation Plus account and low expectations.

Drawn To Death's multiplayer modes consist of 1v1 brawls, 2v2 team deathmatch, 3- or 4-player free-for-alls, and a mode where you pick up drops from slain enemies and deposit them for points. In other words, it offers nothing you haven't played in a hundred other shooters. Which mode you get depends on how many players the matchmaking can wrangle up in the minutes-long wait time before the round begins. Even days after launch, full four-player matches are rare. Regardless of the player count, the small map sizes keep the action moving, but the core mechanics aren't fluid or responsive enough to make it satisfying.

Drawn To Death's characters are a little more memorable, thanks to their unique abilities. Ninjaw (a buxom anime ninja with a shark head) can use her oversized anchor to hookshot her way around maps, while Cyborgula (a cyborg gargoyle) can hover over the battlefield with a tap of the button. However, the button inputs and techniques for each character's abilities aren't intuitive or uniform, so you have to rely on rote memorization to learn everyone's move sets. The same is true for each character's pros and cons, which make them strong/weak against other specific individuals. Devoted players may find some depth and strategy in these nuances, but with such underwhelming modes and gameplay, there's no reason to become devoted in the first place. After a few matches, most players will be ready to move on to a bigger, better game.

If not, Drawn To Death has some innovative new ways for punishing your decision to stick with it. Beyond the insult-slinging announcer and characters, players are plied with a wide variety of unlockable taunts to spam other players with. These animated images pop up on player avatars and kill screens, and emulate the dankest of internet memes. For example, I unlocked a tombstone with the witty slogan "R.I.P. Your Ass." To drive the joke home, the tombstone itself is also shaped like a butt. I can't think of a better metaphorical representation of what Drawn to Death is, or why you can skip it.

The Sexy Brutale is a stately English mansion that has been converted into a casino for the richest and most eccentric personalities in the world. If youre lucky, you can walk away from your visit with newfound riches and tales of daring. If youre unlucky, The Sexy Brutales staff murders you. Unfortunately for most guests, the house usually wins.

Players jump behind the collar of an elderly priest named Lafcadio Boone. Lafcadio is stuck in a time loop and must relive the same day over and over again, forever watching the guests of The Sexy Brutale die in horrible and surprising ways. Every character has a set pattern for the day, and you follow them through their routines, eventually discovering how they meet their grisly demises  all while hiding from The Sexy Brutales staff, who kill you on sight.

Tequila Works attention to detail in this intricate Swiss watch is truly mindboggling. I loved peering through keyholes and out of wardrobes, watching people go about their daily business as I learned their quirks. As you slowly piece together characters routines, you eventually discover a way to subvert the time loop and prevent their deaths. Discovering each guests secret takes a bit of patience, but I felt like a world-class spy after uncovering them. In one instance, I kept losing a guest as I trailed her through the mansion, so I camped out in a certain spot for most of the day, and eventually watched her emerge from a hidden passageway. This passageway, in turn, led me to some vital information that helped me save the elusive woman.

Preventing a characters death usually involves a series of adventure-game antics, such as using a record player to lure a minion into a closet and then locking the door behind them. Thankfully, these puzzle solutions are rarely obtuse, and they often ask you to pull the strings from the shadows in some empowering ways. I prevented one murder by turning a rifle into a nonlethal weapon, while another puzzle had me reworking the power in the mansion in order to stop an escape artists stage show before it was his final curtain call.

After rescuing each character, you are rewarded with a supernatural mask that opens new pathways through the maze-like mansion. One mask grants supernatural hearing, so you can overhear crew members mumble critical information. Another lets you talk with ghosts who know things about the mansions guests. Each new mask made me feel more powerful, and made it easier to navigate The Sexy Brutales twisted hallways.

While The Sexy Brutales masks act as permanent upgrades, some tools are fleeting. Every time you rewind time and start the day over, you lose any items youve collected up to that point, which means that you have to go back through the mansion and re-collect any items you need to solve certain puzzle, which is a hassle.

A bigger flaw to the repetitive cycle is the fact that the puzzles must be completed in one go, but they arent always the simple get one item and use it someplace solutions typically seen in adventure games. The Sexy Brutale is a mansion full of carefully orchestrated routines, which means that most of the puzzles force you to wait until certain characters have entered specific rooms or interacted with special objects. You rarely uncover the solution to a puzzle in a single day, which means that you frequently need to repeat the same steps and watch the same routines play out several times over before finally solving a puzzle. After repeat views, even events that were initially charming become dull and aggravating.

You can fast forward to certain points in the day, but it isnt precise enough to alleviate the problem. You often must fetch an object in the house early in the day and then deliver it to a certain room later, and then you have to wait for a character to enter that room or interact with that object before progressing. Most of the solutions require you to spend a lot of time hiding in wardrobes watching the seconds tick by while you wait for characters to go about their business.

The Sexy Brutales repetitive nature bogs down what is otherwise a clever title. Tequila Works cast of characters are lovably eccentric and its puzzles are consistently rewarding. Unfortunately, The Sexy Brutale confirms one of the overlooked flaws of time travel: reliving the same day repeatedly can be tedious.

Mr. Shifty starts off on a promising note. You play the eponymous hero, infiltrating a skyscraper to steal a valuable piece of technology. Shifty has the impressive ability to teleport short distances, passing through walls and enemies to reach his target. The entire game hinges on this mechanic, and it is fun for a short period. However, Mr. Shifty soon devolves into a repetitious experience that ends up being nearly unplayable thanks to a bevy of technical issues.

Drawing inspiration from Hotline Miami, Mr.Shifty is composed of overhead view levels patrolled by enemies carrying various weapons. Usually you have to kill all of them with your fists or melee weapons you find scattered about the environment (like steel beams or broom handles). If anyone hits you once, youre dead and have to start the level over.

The phasing ability is fun initially; you dance around enemies, trapping or causing them to shoot each other. Later levels add more objects for you to play with, likes mines you can stick to enemies and then teleport away, giggling as they explode and take out an entire squad of foes. However, Mr.Shifty has over a hundred of these levels that eventually become nothing more than horde rooms, where the goal is to teleport around and survive the onslaught of enemies. Mutators change the gameplay a little, like enemies suddenly being able to appear out of thin air, or introducing laser beams you have to teleport to avoid, but Shifty never gets far away enough from its teleportation hook to make it keep the action interesting over the long haul.

To make matters worse, performance issues render the back half of the game nearly unplayable. Many of my deaths were not because of my own bad moves, but because the game stuttered or slowed down to a crawl once enemies started pouring onto the screen. When a single hit can make you you lose up to 10 minutes of progress, thats unacceptable. I also encountered two game-ending crashes that robbed me of nearly an hours worth of progress altogether since the game only saves when you beat a chapter, not at each individual level.

Technical problems aside, the latter half is disappointing in other ways. Except for some lightly sprinkled puzzles, Mr. Shifty is content just to throw more and more enemies at you for the last few hours, trading the creativity in the first half for a dull endurance test that lasts far too long and ends with a whimper.

I was finished with Mr. Shifty long before the credits rolled. It didnt make me feel like a skilled thief or a rad, teleporting vigilante. It just made me tired and disappointed to see such a neat premise amount to nothing more than a chore.

From Kinect to Apple TV, Harmonix has gained a reputation for supporting fledgling platforms. Following the revival of the Rock Band franchise in 2015 with Rock Band 4, the studio turned its eyes toward another new piece of hardware: the Oculus Rift virtual-reality headset. After releasing Harmonix Music VR, a collection of music-focused minigames, the developer called upon its most recognizable IP, Rock Band.

Rock Band VR combines familiar conventions with enough new elements to make the experience novel and exciting for fans of the genre. Taking full advantage of the technology, Rock Band VR puts players in the first-person perspective with little UI clogging up your view, a departure from the view in mainline Rock Band games where the concert video-style presentation is background to the prominent note highway. Instead, you're free to look around the stage, with the only UI appearing in a chord guide that floats above the crowd, and a combo meter on the head of your guitar. This new approach plays into the strengths of virtual reality, removing the barrier that exists with previous series between the player and the screen. When a song I love like Foo Fighters' "Everlong" or Megadeth's "Hangar 18" comes on, it's difficult not to get into it. I found myself tapping my foot, nodding my head, and even holding the guitar in a more stylish manner during my favorite tracks.

I enjoyed being able to look out over the crowd as I played through a set, but unlike the similar concept in Guitar Hero Live, the people you're looking at are rarely interesting. The members of the crowd do things like try to take selfies or yell out at the stage, but the concept doesn't go far enough. What's worse is your bandmates, who feel more animatronic than human. Each time I looked over at my fellow instrumentalists, they did little more than stand at their mic stands and sing along - save for some pre- and post-song animations, like one where one of them smashes their guitar. One of the things that made Guitar Hero Live's first-person perspective so much fun was the campy-yet-entertaining way that your bandmates and fans reacted to you during the songs.

Setup for Rock Band VR is surprisingly easy. You attach a special Oculus Touch holder to the head of a Rock Band 4 guitar controller and sync the controller to your PC. Once that's done, it's just a matter of getting the software up and running and learning the basics of gameplay through the tutorials.

Despite using the same guitar controller, the core gameplay of Rock Band VR is drastically different from the rest of the series. Rather than playing along to specific colored gems on a note highway (that is reserved for the peripheral classic mode), you improvise what you want to play using a scrolling guide that hovers over the audience. The guide doesn't tell you exactly what notes to play, but rather when you should change chords and chord shapes. Within this system, you also rack up points using different established combinations of the various chord shapes. With no note highway, you're instead scored based on how well you follow the guide.

Jumping between bar chords, power chords, arpeggios, and muted arpeggios is fun, especially when the song breaks those progressions up with a solo. The guitar-solo mechanics borrow heavily from the mechanics of Rock Band 4's improvisational solo mechanics, so if you've played that mode, you know what to expect. However, players looking for a true challenge like Guitar Hero and mainline Rock Band games might be disappointed; instead of the satisfaction of completing a song, the main thrill of Rock Band VR comes with making songs sound good through your improvisation (trust me, you can make some classic songs sound like garbage since the guitar sounds mirror your play).

Playing through songs using this system is fun at first, but it falls flat quickly. Unlike the series' classic gameplay, Rock Band VR's core gameplay doesn't feature the same nuance from song to song. This means that while a track like Stone Temple Pilots' "Plush" is drastically different from Dream Theater's "Pull Me Under" from both an instrumentation and a structural perspective, the gameplay does not reflect that massive gap between those two tracks. You can improvise to make them sound more distinct, but the act of actually playing those songs does not feel as different as it should.

The setlist is made up of a diverse group of songs, featuring classic Rock Band favorites like Bon Jovi's "Livin' on a Prayer" and The Who's "Won't Get Fooled Again" to new additions to the franchise like Kaleo's "Glass House" and The Pretty Reckless' "Heaven Knows." I love that these songs can be played in both the new improvisation-based gameplay, as well as the classic mode with the note highway. The modes play completely different from one another, so when I wanted a break from one style, it was great to be able to easily jump to the other. I just wish that classic mode had more going on than just a blank background that does nothing to capitalize on the immersive properties of virtual reality.

Multiplayer is one of the cornerstones of the Rock Band franchise, but Rock Band VR is strictly a single-player experience centered on quickplay and a short, forgettable story mode. I understand why the multiplayer is missing given the format of the VR gameplay, but without being able to play with friends, the game feels like a half-measure rather than the full-blown Rock Band experience that made the series so much fun in the first place.

Stepping into the shoes of the lead guitarist adds a new layer of excitement to the Rock Band formula, and the new gameplay mechanics are fun to mess around with, even if it feels completely different from the original gameplay style. Harmonix has always prided itself on giving players new ways to experience their music, and Rock Band VR succeeds in that regard. Though lacking in content, Rock Band VR is a fun, new way for the long-running series to let you live out the rockstar fantasy. 

Since its inception in comic form, and later in its cinematic incarnation, Guardians of the Galaxy has always flown by the seat of its pants, both in creative decisions and narrative arcs. Frantic pacing, weird characters, and over-the-top situations somehow coalesce and triumph through pure pulp craziness.

Telltales Guardians of the Galaxy lives in its own universe, but if the first episode is any indication, its too eager to echo what has come before, especially aping the movie interpretation (minus much of the wit and comedic timing). A couple surprise events and some excellent voice acting keep things moving, and give me hope that the full season may emerge as a worthwhile adventure.

Peter Quill takes center stage in this first episode, and Telltales glossy art style falls short of capturing his roguish charm. To the storys credit, the opening hour throws down the gauntlet with a particularly big baddie, helping to establish the high stakes of what lies ahead. The plot that follows is mostly about setting up chess pieces  Rockets growing disdain for life on the road, Peters memories of Mom, a will they/wont they friendship with Gamora  but its hard to know how or if anything will pay off.

I enjoyed several of the character moments between the leads, even though those interactions held few surprises. We spend most of our time here getting to know the team and their relationships with each other; it might slow down the pace for this episode, but its probably a good foundation for future installments.

Guardians of the Galaxy is clearly aiming for a higher-octane thrill ride than some of Telltales other properties, with a focus on battle scenes, flying sequences, and frantic trigger-pulls to blast away with futuristic guns. I applaud the effort, but many of these scenes feel stilted, and lack the explosive effects and animation to feel truly cinematic. They also dont have meaningful control inputs that lead to engaging gameplay. New mechanics, like flight-driven exploration and a time scanner attempt to inject variety into the flow, but both are so dramatically underused that theyre barely worth mentioning. Humor is also a major push this time, but the jokes dont land, with the possible exception of a chuckle-worthy gag about activating a piece of ancient machinery.

Telltale has made its name touting narrative choice in its games, but episode one of the Guardians series feels too linear in structure to allow real investment in guiding the outcome of the story. I like that one important scene can unfold differently based on your choice, and another event brings one or another major character along for the ride. But the actual conclusions of multiple playthroughs emerge largely undifferentiated one from another. I hope the later episodes prove me wrong, and I begin to see my decisions shape the state of galactic affairs  but weve been down this road many times before with Telltale, and usually end up disappointed.

Guardians of the Galaxy has always evinced a slapdash weirdness. It is so bonkers it shouldnt really hold together, and thats exactly why it works. Judging by this first episode, Telltales interpretation lacks that sense of risk; it safely treads familiar territory for admittedly fun characters. Im not sure that is enough to hold up five playable episodes, but chapter one shows glimmers of potential.

Flinthook is something of a roguelike training regimen. Rather than present you with one long-winded, daunting task at the outset, it first presents you with a series of lighter, shorter challenges to let you dip your toe in the genre. It doesnt nail the long-term replayability of the genre, but while youre working toward the endgame, it offers the great thrill of just barely overcoming challenges that at first feel far out of reach.

Captain Flinthook is a plucky space pirate who uses a grappling hook to board ships and search for treasure  as well as something more personal. Grappling points litter most rooms, the floors of which are often hazardous. Propelling and shooting through a room without touching the ground is usually difficult due to the number of spiked balls, lasers, and enemies you encounter, but the feeling of threading the needle and blasting apart every enemy in sight without a scratch never gets old.

The speed of grappling makes it hard to do that consistently, but thats where Flinthooks ability to slow down time comes in. The meter which governs its use is fairly short (about a second or two by default) but refills quickly, making it indispensable for pulling off the kind of tight-knit maneuvers some rooms require of you.

Putting it all together takes some time, though. The controls take some getting used to, and before I unlocked some of the available powerups or learned to scan a room for traps, clearing even one ship was difficult. But as I built up my strength and learned how to use every tool at my disposal, I began making more headway per run.

Because each ship (made up of several rooms) is randomly generated, combat encounters are always different, which gives Flinthook a great sense of variety. Play long enough and enemies become familiar. But you also begin to recognize them as pieces of a larger challenge; some enemies do nothing but take up space but become more dangerous when protected by shield-generating allies and a sea of cannons. In many cases, the room youre fighting in is a bigger obstacle than the monsters youre fighting.

As you level up between runs, you unlock equippable perks and permanent upgrades that take some of the edge off. Some simply boost your stats, but others offer larger gunshots, a healing item between levels, or a one-time revive. These perks make progress much easier, and should give anyone the tools they need to make it through the harrowing trials later on; without spoiling too much, I was able to outlast the final boss by simply standing there and shooting at him, since I invested heavily in health. That anti-climactic ending came after a long streak of successes I didnt think I had in me, though, and I was still pumping my fist when the credits rolled.

That triumph came a little too quickly, however, and while I still had plenty of perks, upgrades, and more to unlock, I didnt feel the need to. By the time Id finished the game, I saw rooms repeat numerous times, which made them feel more like work than a fun challenge. You can tackle harder versions of every boss, daily and weekly challenges, an infinite mode, and search for secrets and lore that fleshes out Flinthooks plot, but none of these extras felt enticing enough to run the same missions over and over for.

Thats an issue because even after 13 or so hours of grappling and time-slowing my way to victory, I still wanted more excuses to play Flinthook. Grappling around each room and deftly making split-second moves still makes me feel nimble in a way other platformers dont, and the feeling of finally defeating a boss after several failed runs is a reward worth chasing, even if you cant pursue it for too long.

Taking inspiration from the likes of Easy Rider, Mad Max, and the works of Hunter S. Thompson, Full Throttle was a strange game in 1995  and it remains strange today. A comedic revenge tale set in the post-apocalypse, Full Throttle puts players in the leather boots of Ben, the leader of a motorcycle gang known as the Polecats who get caught up in a bloody conspiracy. For this remaster, Double Fine has completely redone the visuals, touched up the audio, and packed the game with bonus features (much like it did with Day of the Tentacle Remastered). These enhancements make this fantastic adventure games age-related shortcomings easier to bear for newcomers and those making a return trip.

Full Throttle shines because of its interesting cast of characters and well-paced story. Though a full playthrough will only take you four to five hours, the characters are given plenty of time to shine, including our laconic hero Ben, the kind-but-determined Maureen, and the villainous Ripburger (voiced wonderfully by Mark Hamill). The plot doesnt veer into unexpected territory outside of some sequences near the tail end, but the characters are so endearing that it doesnt matter. I enjoyed revisiting Ben and Maureens will they or wont they? relationship and Ripburgers bumbling henchman so much it didnt matter how conventional the story of Bens quest for revenge was. The line-by-line writing is strong enough to make everyone compelling from beginning to end, even if theyre largely archetypical.

The same however cannot be said for the puzzles. As is often the case with older point-and-click adventures, Full Throttles puzzles are bearable at best and frustrating at worst. Only two segments were frustrating to the point that I had to consult a guide on how to solve them, and they feel odd just for the sake of being odd, requiring me to obtain strange objects to use in unexpected places to progress. As annoying as these sections could be, they were brief enough that they didnt hinder my experience much. Part of the relief stems from the fact that Full Throttle Remastered also has a hint functionality that you can use to light up objects you can interact with in the environment, which often saved me from pixel-hunting for solutions.

The graphics have been spruced up, replacing the pixelated look of the original with a widescreen, fully-drawn, animated aesthetic that looks great. I found myself switching back and forth between the new look and the 4:3 old one just to see the differences and both of them have enough charm that I kept doing it throughout my playthrough just to soak in the differences. The sound mixing for the soundtrack and dialogue has also been improved, and a variety of DVD-like extras including concept art and commentary fill out the package nicely. As someone who grew up on LucasArts adventure games, I loved these little extras and tidbits about Full Throttles development.

Theres no getting around that Full Throttle is a 22-year-old adventure game and still plays like it. The puzzles are occasionally frustrating. Your character moves at a slow pace, and some of cultural humor is outdated. Still, the quirks of the original game are as attractive today as they were then, and this version does a fine job smoothing out the rough edges, making Full Throttle Remastered a road trip worth taking. 

Little Nightmares [official site] is the story of a little girl in a horrible place. Its a horror game but its mostly bloodless and doesnt rely on jumpscares or sudden shocks. Ive loved almost every minute of it., , Im going to get the Inside comparisons out of the way now so nobody is waiting for any revelations on that front. There are many similarities, not only in the macabre tone (both contain a lot of child death and an oppressive atmosphere; neither contains buckets of gore), but in the side-scrolling puzzling and occasional platforming. Get up close to Little Nightmares, however, and its rooms and corridors are constructed using entirely different techniques to those used by Playdead. The major difference is in Tarsiers borrowing from survival horror, with stealth and hiding playing a key part. Little Nightmares may be a branch on the family tree that contains Limbo and Inside, but it has the vines of Clocktower wrapped around it as well., Every scene is like a little constructed set, a dollshouse with the front walls peeled back to allow an interior view. Characters dont have the jerky animation of stop motion figures, but they have a solidity. If Inside is mostly silhouettes and shadows, Tarsiers game appears to be constructed using solid, physical entities. While it doesnt have actual props and clay figures in its scenes, as The Dream Machine does, its art style and animations give a sense of practical effects rather than CGI., 

That carries through from the visuals into the tactility of the world. There are plenty of objects, large and small, that can be picked up, dragged, thrown and toppled. Importantly, the spaces these objects exist in are fully 3D. Rather than being trapped to a 2D plane, as is the case with Inside and Another World, the other notable predecessor and reference point, Little Nightmares places your character on stages with depth to them. That not only allows for puzzles to spread out across the space and into the background, but creates extra room and pathways for pursuit and cowering., There are a handful of stages in the game. Theyre probably better referred to as acts or phasesbecause they mark movement through the story, flowing together, rather than distinct shifts from one area to the next. What marks them out, more than a change of scenery, is a change in antagonist., Little Nightmares is at its best when the nightmares are shuffling and snuffling around the place, larger than life, and trying to catch and eat you. If youve seen my earlier thoughts on the game, or the marketing campaign, youll probably be aware of the chefs. There are other creatures hunting the kitchens and dining rooms youll be sneaking through, including a horribly spider-like toymaker, who has ruined a part of my childhood forever., , One of the many things I love about the game is the confusion of scale that afflicts everything, from what appear to be people to furniture and food. Early on, a man hangs from the ceiling, his legs dangling near a chair that was presumably an instrumental part of his death. Compared to the player character, the chair is enormous and compared to the man, its too small to be functional. As you squeeze through tiny openings and try to go unnoticed, scuttling beneath cabinets and tables, its clear that this world wasnt built for the likes of you, but its not entirely clear who it was built for. Nobody seems to fit quite right and theres little comfort to be found anywhere., Its best to know nothing more than youve already read, here, before starting. Perhaps its OK to know that the game was originally called Hunger and that youll need to find morsels of food from time to time. Frustratingly, Little Nightmares didnt earn my trust in its opening half hour. Its a cold opening, without any pre-text or introductory video. Youre a small person in a big, scary place, andnow what?, Because this is a game, youre probably going to run to the right and thats good. But its very dark, and the place youre in isnt very interesting, and do you even have a way to shed some light on the situation. Well, you do. You have a lighter, but either the game doesnt feel the need to tell you that you have it, or how to use it, or I started pressing buttons so fast I skipped whatever prompt might have appeared. Whatever the case, I half-admire the lack of exposition and hand-holding in the opening, but I also found the first area quite bland, and the lack of any real objective or purpose left me feeling a bit lost. And not in a good way., , Things pick up relatively quickly, thankfully. Once Mister Limbs, as I unaffectionately call him, started to grope around in the dark, hunting for me, I was fully on-board. That slightly duff opening is a problem though, not only in that it gives a bad first impression, but because the game is so lean that it cant really afford to accommodate any downtime. Im all for short games, and Little Nightmares barely wastes any of its running time with padding or repetition, but it only took me around three hours to finish. The conclusion is very final but I was left wanting more in the middle: more monsters, more extraordinary views and grubby little rooms. More of the spectacular grotesque that the game displays in its finest moments., Its puzzles are simple but satisfying, usually solved simply by looking at the environment and figuring out where to climb, where to crawl or where best to run and hide. I was occasionally annoyed to find a drawer that needed to be opened, despite not looking any different to its jammed neighbours, or a climbable surface that didnt stand out in the gloom. Now, I reckon those were daft things to be annoyed about. Little Nightmares gives you time and space to poke at and prod its environments, and thats a good thing. You can rush through, and some rooms seem to exist just as set dressing, but unless something is breathing down your neck, its good to stop an appreciate the grim little world Tarsier have crafted., Visually, it ended up reminding me of Edward Lears drawings and Gerald Scarfes work more than Tim Burton or Caro &amp; Jeunet, who I figured were likely inspirations based on early glimpses of the game. All of the visuals tie together thematically as well, and while the opening may be vague and suggest theres no real direction to the plot, Little Nightmares is a wordless tale with a lot to say. Theres a great big dollop of Animal Farm mixed into the meal, along with the more explicitly monstrous scares. , , And it is scary. Not in a way that left me sleepless and hiding under the blankets, or quitting to desktop and turning the lights back on, but in a way that made my skin crawl. Dying isnt a terrible punishment, usually setting you back a couple of rooms at most, but there were times when I was so appalled by the idea of being caught be these things that when spotted, Id find a safe spot and hide for far longer than it would have taken me to die, respawn and try again. Often, the terror is of that sort that makes children eager to hear the end of a fairytale even though people are being cannibalised, or that makes campfire ghost stories so much fun. Its horror that makes you lean in rather than turn away., I love it. There were times when I didnt, mostly when I had to replay a section where I kept failing to line up what looked like a simple jump over and over, but by the end I was smitten. Its a grotesque, horrid and eventually hopeful in its own morbid fashion, and despite many moments that feel like reimaginings or echoes from elsewhere, it has enough extraordinary images and sequences to stand alone. Its precisely the kind of horror game I love  grotesque but not gross, and interested in thoughtful pacing and escalation rather than jumpscares and shocks. Also, linear though it is, there are some collectibles Id like to hunt for and the whole game is short enough that Ill happily play it again, or watch someone else playing.

Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War 3 [official site] wants to be everything you like about the series, and its very different predecessors, in a single RTS. Missed the big armies and the base building? Theyre back. Prefer fighting with beefy heroic units with lots of special abilities? Theyre here too. Its trying to be all things to all men, women, Orks and Eldar, and crikey does it come close to succeeding. So close you can hear the heavy metal roar of an Ork Waaagh tower and the thudding of Space Marine boots., , For the first time, Relic have put all three of their favourite factions on equal footing straight away instead of holding all but the Space Marines back for expansions. The heavily armoured space fascists, Orks and Eldar share the spotlight in both the campaign and multiplayer  a relief after the spate of Space Marine-only affairs. And its in the design of these factions that Relic have done some of their strongest work., Each group scratches an itch. The Emperors finest are like a fist smashing a face: punchy. They charge and leap with bolters blasting and swords held high, getting into brawls quickly and pinning down fleshy foes with big hammers and even bigger knockbacks. Theyre as subtle as a fart in an elevator, as evidenced by their special ability: they can queue up drop pods, containing more Space Marines, primed to be dropped right on the heads of their foes., , The Eldar and Orks arent quite as intuitive, but benefit from an additional layer of complexity. The former, along with their speed and predilection for fast, ranged strikes, can link up buildings to create a web of teleporters, and even teleport the buildings themselves. Theyre perfect for hit-and-run tactics and surprise assaults. Their green enemies, on the other hand, overwhelm with numbers and the power of their psychic rage  the Waaagh. They grow in strength as they loot and salvage scrap to be used for upgrades, new vehicles and additional Waaagh towers. , While all three factions feature a broad range of line units, from melee units that can lock down enemies to ranged troops who fire devastating weapons that need time to set up, they still feel fundamentally different. Heres an example of Marine combat., Gabriel Angelos and a couple of squads of Tactical Marines are surrounded by pumped-up Orks, roaring and flailing with their cruel axes. Theyre outnumbered, health rapidly being whittled down, and they cant make it back to their base. Angelos, an Elite and thus blessed with more health and a suite of handy abilities, could make a break for it. He could leap over the Orks and leg it to safety, leaving his men behind. Instead, he leaps up, not over, and when he lands in the centre of the green tide, every enemy in the area flies backwards. , , With extra breathing room, Angelos troops open fire, but theyre quickly forced back into desperate melee duels by another wave of enemies  enemies too busy to watch the skies. A roaring noise competes with the din of battle followed by, seconds later, two explosions. Two more rings of Orks are flung backwards. The drop pod doors open up with fresh soldiers pouring out, setting up firing positions and chasing down fleeing Nobz and Boyz., Swap out the Space Marines for Eldar and the story changes. With their speed and penchant for slowing enemies, they really shouldnt be surrounded in the first place, but if they are, theyre in a bit of a pickle. A whole jar of pickles. Eldar have a lot of strengths, but sustained melee engagements aint one of them  they crumble faster than me after a brisk jog, which is to say very quickly and with no small amount of embarrassment. Still, there are ways for them to escape using clouds of smoke and handy stuns, but if they choose to duke it out with the Orks, they wont come out of it nearly as well as Angelos and his buds. , Some people will scoff at the idea that MOBAs can teach RTS games anything, but the MOBA inspiration behind unit design and ability synergy is a massive boon here. Though not quite as developed as the heroes from the likes of Dota or Heroes of the Storm, every unit  not just the Elites  has a hook and an ability that make them a valuable part of a team. And this goes well beyond the rock, paper, scissors formula. The value of a unit is more fluid, more situational, and depends on the squads around them creating opportunities. , It would be lovely, though, if everyone could maybe die less? Or at least at a slower rate. Its a bit of a jump from the incredibly hardy but small squads of Dawn of War 2 to these considerably more vulnerable facsimiles. Its hard to get invested in a unit when they could get wiped out in a few seconds. Its almost like Space Marine armour is actually made out of polystyrene. Sure, its lighter, and its probably more comfortable, but is comfort worth dying over? , , The scarcity of properly hardy soldiers is something I could perhaps live with if there were more ways to mitigate damage. Unfortunately, after experimenting with a cover system in DoW2, Relic have chucked it in the bin in favour of no cover system at all. There are capturable areas that provide a destructible shield, but theres no guarantee that youll be fighting anywhere near one; nor is one bit of cover really going to stop a lot of your troops from being riddled with holes. I like the clarity of these defensible positions, but theres no flexibility. The result is that a great number of fights are pitched battles in open areas., Line of sight and high ground have an impact, and hidden units  either through an ability or an area that cloaks them  mean that sneak attacks and ambushes are perfectly viable tactics, so battles are never just a matter of smashing armies together, but theres no real room for a defensive player. As well as a dearth of cover to hide behind, there are incredibly few fortification options and units arent capable of being garrisoned in buildings. This is especially strange when you consider the multiplayer mode, which involves protecting your teams power core while trying to take out the oppositions. , Everyone is on the offensive in multiplayer. You might, like I did at first, build up your forces, protect some important resource points, and keep an eye on your power core, but you wont make many friends, and your allies will probably blame you for the loss. Maybe theyre assholes, but they might also be right. If youre not constantly harassing the enemy, taking out their Elites, and generally getting up to mischief, then youre probably not helping. , , Thats not really the important bit, mind. Who cares what your team thinks? The real problem is that playing defensively is so incredibly, dreadfully, mind-numbingly dull. Got a couple of guys hiding behind some smoke? Placed someone in the magical shield bubble? Great, youre pretty much done. Build some more units, I guess? So now youre bored and you arent really helping. , That aside, Dawn of War 3s multiplayer battles are still great. 3v3 in particular is a glorious mess of clashing armies and territorial punch-ups. Heres the gist: two teams duke it out over their respective power cores, each placed at opposite ends of the map. To take out a power core, at least one of the turrets protecting it must be destroyed, and to take out a turret, youve got to take out the shield generator protecting it. And to keep the conflict going at all times, resource points dot the map and create new objectives for players to fight over. , With so many targets and an escalation system that increases resource generation and building health every 10 minutes, theres an aggressive, relentless flow to these battles, and first blood is usually spilled within the first minute. With drop pods falling from the skies, buildings teleporting willy-nilly and giant Elite units slaughtering entire squads in seconds, it can be chaotic and sometimes hard to parse, but this chaos is also the source of some of the most exhilarating RTS brawls Ive had the pleasure to win and lose. , , While the constant attack, attack, attack might seem repetitive, theres plenty of diversity when it comes to choosing how youre going to be aggressive. See, before every multiplayer match, and to a lesser extent campaign mission, you choose a loadout  three MOBA-like Elites and six doctrines, essentially augments and buffs. These can dramatically change the tone of your forces, or shore up any gaps in their capabilities., Orks arent very sneaky. They are too loud and, lets face it, too smelly for stealth. But with the right combination of Elites and doctrines, they can be almost as sly as the Eldar. Zapnoggin, for instance, can teleport groups of Orks into or out of trouble with his fancy Ork magic, while one of their doctrines allows them to hide underneath the scrap they normally use to unlock new weapons and armour, littering the battlefield with potential ambush sites. Doctrines and Elites require skulls before they can be unlocked, however. You can earn a fair amount of currency from the campaign and keep earning it through multiplayer matches. Im still not entirely convinced by the unnecessarily complicated system, however. Youve got army doctrines that are, not surprisingly, army wide; presence doctrines, which only work if the Elite theyre connected to is present on the battlefield; and command doctrines that work when a specific Elite is in your loadout. Then youve got to take into account levels, because command doctrines can only be unlocked when an Elite reaches level 3, and when it hits level 8 that same doctrine can be unlocked as an army doctrine and Im losing you, I know I am. , , Im some 1,600 words into this Wot I Think and youre probably starting to notice that Ive been avoiding the campaign. Unfortunately this is not because Ive been building up to Dawn of War 3s best feature. Nothing about it works for me. Not the paper-thin characters, not the plodding story, not the endless journeys across maps that keep growing. There are a few individual missions that Ive definitely clicked with, but as a whole, the campaign iswell, its a disappointment. Its the one place where Relics attempt to merge elements from the two earlier games doesnt really work, and the juxtaposition of linear, scripted missions with base building is incredibly awkward, cursing many missions with a confusing pace. , They usually start out by limiting your army to a handful of squads and forcing you down a bunch of corridors, fighting your way from A to B. Without wrinkles like cover, suppression and resources, it feels more like Diablo than an RTS. Sometimes, thats the entire mission. A few squads and an Elite, jogging from one end of the map to the other. The majority, however, let you start building a base during the second phase of the mission. Thats when things start to feel like a strategy romp again, with armies duking it out over capture points and assaulting each others HQs. , , Id still do terrible things for a more reactive campaign AI, mind you. It feels like enemies never really act unless the invisible director tells them to. When they attack, its because theyve reached that point in the mission when theyre meant to try to take out your base. When fast patrols start scouting and hunting down your minions, its because its part of a secondary objective, not just something an enemy with common sense would do., Aside from Homeworld, Relics best campaigns tend to be non-linear and based around capturing territory across one or more campaign maps  a simulation of actual warfare. Its desperately needed here. Without it, there arent enough decisions for players to make. From start to finish, the campaign feels like youre playing someone elses story, not your own. And while decent RTS campaigns increasingly feel like my white whale, I can usually depend on Relic for something better., , There are moments, many of them, during multiplayer and AI skirmishes, where Im absolutely certain that Dawn of War 3 is the best game in the series, even with its missteps when it comes to cover and fortifications. I could happily continue rambling on about the brilliant faction design or how I still squeal with glee every time I drop a gargantuan beast of an Elite like Imperial Knight Solaria into a fight  you havent lived until youve witnessed her impossibly huge guns turning an army of Orks into green-red paste. If youre only interested in the campaign, however, then youre unlikely to find as much to get enthused about.

Lots of people have tried to make educational games. Few have succeeded. Odyssey [official site] gets closer than most, in its efforts to teach about physics, astronomy and mechanics. Its been in early access for a while, but comes out today, accompanied by a price drop. Heres wot I think:, , Odyssey, despite the rather bold choice of name, is about following in the steps of a family who recently explored the Wretched Isles  a fictional group of tiny islands in the Caribbean, once populated by Island Caribs until an invasion of pirates in the mid-17th century. Last populated by the US army in the Second World War, the Rao family has gained permission to visit the out-of-bounds rocks to do some research during the summer holidays. You, it seems, are brmming a boat somewhere nearby when you hear the distress call of the clans 13 year-old daughter, Kai, so stop off to see whats what., What follows is a first-person adventure-cum-puzzler that at first glance looks like a homemade version of The Witness. Odd boards and electric grids are rigged about around the place, and progress is gained by solving the puzzles thereon. But it soon becomes clear this is a lot less about esoteric brainteasers, and much more about exploring astronomy from first principles., , I love the ambitions behind Odyssey. It wants to educate, and not in a tiresomely deceptive way, but up front with books and diagrams and practical application through puzzles. It crafts a rather odd setting to do this, but hey, who doesnt love exploring an abandoned island? But even so, theres a point where it starts to feel too disingenuous. Sure, this familys on an island during the holidays, professor parents wanting to explore some old world mysteries with their teenage daughter  your scribe  and her older brother Sid, brought along. And sure, science boff dad cant help but want to feed his daughters curious mind as they go, fixing bridges, exploring pirate interference, directing her to keep a detailed journal about both the present adventures and the science shes being taught. Ill even accept the completely ridiculous conceit that the puzzles youre solving to gain progress are there to prevent some unknown baddies from reaching the family, with pages ripped from Kais journal left nearby for  er  I guess me to read and solve., But there comes a point where this utterly un-13-like 13 year old is dryly describing her experiments to learn why a disc and a ball are lit differently by a light source, in order to understand how ancient folks knew the moon was a sphere. And she explains that she does this using her project supplies, items half stuff you get from a craft store and half salvaged from the junkyard near my house, including a bunch of these cool crank wheels that make gears and sliders go back and forth., Cool crank wheels., That she brought along, on a boat trip, to a remote island that no one is supposed to have stood on since World War II. She just has those cool crank wheels and sliders with her, in her suitcase, like any 13 year old would., Oh come on., I mounted a light on a track, to act like the sun, between the two moons so I could crank it forward and backward. I could have just held the models up to the light, but I wanted to be precise., Oh come on., And it definitely isnt helpful that the games opening monologue sounds uncannily like Vanessa Bayers SNL character Laura Parsons., , The larger mistake, beyond the stretched credulity of the format, is the balance of playing to reading. Just three or four puzzles in Id already read 49 pages of journal. FORTY-NINE. And once Ive finished reading the latest lengthy batch theres then a puzzle relating to that sun/moon light machine that takes approximately thirty seconds, revealing the next wad of pages to read. Another eight pages of dense text. And four pages of this is, I swear, an aching justification for an impossibly complicated room-size combination puzzle to lower a ladder., Solve it, and the ladder comes down with another twelve pages of diary., Now, theres nothing really wrong with these diaries. They dont read like any thirteen-year-old who has ever existed, and I fear that lack of authenticity will do much to put off its target audience of inquisitive teens, but thats not the end of the world. And in fact, the way the entries approach the subjects of how pre-enlightenment scientists and astronomers were able to identify the spherical nature of the Earth, and the orbits of the solar system, are brilliantly approached. It comes at everything from first principle, with Kia encouraged by her father to try to work out how the peoples of these islands could have reached the knowledge shes been given., , Kia is smart, and likes to build models to process her thinking, and this all means as the player you learn alongside her. You, a grown up, have likely heard a good few of the reasons we can discern the not-flatness of the Earth, but it addresses the many arguments that were made over the last couple of thousand years in careful and precise terms, almost as if a primer for anyone wanting to make a flat-Earther idiot get out of their Twitter mentions in a hurry. The problem is, it does all this in text on pretend paper on your screen, rather than in what you do in the brief portions of actually playing., Yes there are puzzles where you align the sun, moon and Earth such that you can see the shadows cast, but these always come long after youve done the reading and been given the conclusions, and usually not to demonstrate what youve been told, but instead to point an arrow at a picture so you can open a door. Go down a zipwire, and then thirty more pages of diary to read., In those thirty pages are two highlighted paragraphs, which hint to where you should position the celestial models Kias been writing about  30 seconds later youve got another twenty-seven pages of handwritten astrophysics to read., , I absolutely did not know that ancient astronomers considered the Sun and moon to be planets, while the Earth not. I knew very little about the rationale behind the geocentric solar system, and its really interesting to learn about it. Im tempted to say, But Id much rather have read about it in a book but thats not really true. I love buying books, but Im not so great at reading them  the reality is, I wasnt going to have stumbled on this information were it not for this game., The problem is, the failed potential for this as a game. A sentiment best captured by, er, the game. In one of those 30-page chunks, as I read about Kias practical experiments to try to disprove Aristotles geocentric model, she recounts a conversation with her father about how pleased he is shes doing all this. As he introduces Copernicus to the story, she writes,, Dad said I was retracing that debate, and he was extremely happy about it, because real science is about investigation and discovery, not just reading the words of a textbook author., Oops., The irony is a little sore., , There are exceptions. When its teaching about the retrograde motion of Mars, and how this can be proven in both geocentric and heliocentric models, you do get to play with (outlandishly complex) machines to see this in action. That makes a difference. But its still so dismissive, there to be a puzzle, rather than an application. , , And so it goes on and on. I admit Ive not finished it. Im 200-something pages into this diary, and its getting into Aristotles mistaken beliefs about the speed of falling objects, and Kias exhaustive experiments to prove him wrong. And still all the learning is taking place in the book, the puzzles really only tangentially related., It calls itself The Next Generation Science Game, but the reality is this feels like something very last generation. Not just the somewhat clunky graphics (theyre nice enough, but look a good few years old), but the whole approach feels like something that misunderstands how games can really be applied to education. Just look at Minecraft, for goodness sakes, to see that its about experimentation and application, not book reading and tests. I think there will be kids who will really appreciate this, but I suspect itll be those who would have enjoyed being given a textbook about the subject almost as much. I really cannot see it drawing in the crowds to accidentally learn physics and astronomy while they play. Mostly because theres almost no playing! I love that its tried, and it certainly is no disaster. But I really cant work out exactly who or what its for.

The cassette tape in Telltales Guardians of the Galaxy [official site] is called Rad Mix instead of Awesome Mix. A crueller man than I might observe that this is all we really need to know about Telltales not-based-on-the-film-and-yet-kinda-is spin on the adventures of Rocket, Groot and chums. I.e., that it really, really wants to be be just like what is arguably the most purely entertaining superhero film on the past decade, but it cant quite pull it off., Im not that cruel. Not quite., To get it out of the way right at the start, dont look to this to break with the now-familiar Telltale formula  not in this first episode at least. Its essentially a string of attractive cutscenes interspersed with a few mild quicktime events to direct the action, and conversational options that in theory have major effects on the outcome but more realistically simply enable you to modulate your characters personality to a greater or lesser extent. , , GOTG turns the polish dial up a little (lovely lighting! proper anti-aliasing!), and in one key action/quicktime event sequence has your control grasshopper-leaping between the five main characters, but otherwise its the interactive movie that this studio is so known for  yer Walking Dead, yer Batman, yer Game Of Thrones, yer Wolf Among Us. , If anything, theres an even keener sense than usual that this was created as script first, interactive elements second. Sometimes, being handed a crumb of control felt like almost an afterthought  a grudging acknowledgement that this wasnt just an excuse for writers, artists and actors to play in one of Marvels most colourful playgrounds., , Ive made my peace with this in Telltale games, though I do appreciate it when they try something a little more ambitious, such as the ambush-planning in their Batman series. Im not telling this videdogame that it should be a completely different sort of videogame  I just wanted to be clear that you should play this because you want another story about Star Lord and his mates, not because you hope its some grand exercise in either action or choice and consequence., I watched GOTG1 on the telly the day before playing this, so I was all primed for another bout of jokes, incompetence, squabbling, spaceships and contrived friendship-saves-the-day resolutions. In hindsight, perhaps this was a mistake, because it threw the realisation that, compared to the original act, this game is basically a pub cover band into sharp relief. , I dont mind a pub cover band. I dont mind GOTG either. Its just that, realistically, theres no hope of convincing myself this is the real deal. , , Its not the fact that this, like the Batman games, is Telltales own universe rather than either film or comic canon. Thats only sensible, really., Its not the fact that it doesnt have any of the same actors, or that three of the main characters look dramatically different from their cinema appearance. (Theyre based, presumably for licensing reasons, more on the comic look, but hybridised with a fair few elements from the film, particularly in terms of personality and backstory). , Its not the core plot, which mixes some arguably over-familiar origin story beats with a mildly shocking fresh setup of its own., Its the fact that it is so heavily influenced by a propulsive, sparky action-comedy movie but is hamstrung by constant slowdowns that devastate its pacing. Sadly, many of these slowdowns are a consequence of it being an uneven combination of showy cutscenes and limited interactivity. When Star Lord has to walk somewhere, he does so achingly slowly, in what I imagine is supposed to be an approximation of Chris Pratts swagger but looks more like his underwear just took an unexpected hit., , Its a collision of license and game style, really. I mean, Batman was suited to a certain amount of hanging around, either on top of gargoyles or at boring posh parties, but the Guardians silver screen thing is that theyre almost always getting on with it and only worrying about the consequences after the fact. , This, by contrast, has far more in the way of sitting around worrying about feelings, and in addition slow-paced basic investigation of an area. Very often, itll also have its cast break into poses, aping the steady stream of hero shots in the film. It makes a gag out of this once, to its credit, but otherwise its just one more type of waiting in a tale that clearly, clearly wants to race on ahead but has had to make concessions in the name of being both a videogame and a close-as-lawyers-allow recreation of the film., To be clear, the slowdowns  the unhurried wanders back and forth to talk to people or grab a single item from an otherwise non-interactive room  wouldnt grate if this was just a Telltale game, as opposed to a Telltale game that so very badly wants to be a Guardians of the Galaxy animated movie more than it does a Telltale game. , , Which rather begs a final question  is this a good Guardians of the Galaxy animated movie? Its alright. Its probably rather comparable to what an actual GOTG animated movie would be, in fact, or reading some of the less accomplished comic runs  reasonably well done, but a distant second to the live action movie. The gags arent as good, the performances arent as charismatic, the spectacle is more serviceable than spectacular, the baddies have less presence, the emotional beats are a little too earnest for their own good. Honestly, its alright, but, yeah, dont do what I do and play it right after watching the film., I had a reasonable time with it. I found the awkward pacing distracting, but really my main issue with it is that it squanders its chance to make a true team game and instead locks you into playing as Star Lord for all but one sequence  because thats how other Telltale games work. , , Theres a suggestion that the remaining four episodes will each be focused on a different member of the team, which I look forwards to (particularly, Id like to see Gamora given a rare opportunity to get the best lines, which even the film denies her), but its not the same as switching between them frequently to resolve situations in a manner of your choosing. , Instead, the slow focus of both this first episode and, it seems, the whole series, is of dividing the team, both physically and emotionally, for surely inevitable re-connection at the end. The obvious route for wringing drama out of the tale, yes, but I wish it had a more distinctive hook than friends get cross with each other. , There is another, better hook, in fact, which I alluded to earlier and cant say much more about, but it has a shot at rewriting the Guardians rulebook. I dont think its going to ultimately take that shot  theres something of a Chekovs spacegun in play that is likely to undo the twist  but I enjoyed its relative boldness nevertheless., , In short, then? Pretty much exactly what you might have expected from the Walking Dead folks doing Guardians. Which is to say competent enough as these things go, but far less suited to manic action-comedy than it is to languid angst and survival. , Oh, and its got a 70s and 80s soundtrack  the Rad Mix  featuring songs not quite as effective as those on the films Awesome Mix. Figures. Nice ELO number, mind you.

Full Throttle Remastered [official site] is the return of perhaps the most under-appreciated of the classic 90s LucasArts adventures. Double Fines remastering will hopefully go a long way to seeing it gain a reputation among a new generation. Heres wot I think:, , Theres a temptation to take my review of Day Of The Tentacle Remastered, then Find/Replace DOTT for Full Throttle. Double Fine are onto a good thing here, taking some of the best loved games of the 1990s, redrawing the art, remixing the sound, and releasing them in working condition for modern PCs. May they not stop at LucasArts games, and do the rest of the industry too. It can feel difficult to add much more to the discussion, because if you hate the new art but love the new sound, switch the first off and the second on. Its Full Throttle, its the same great-but-flawed adventure, the same gorgeously detailed but far too short tale of biker Ben in a future world where cars no longer have wheels., Then of course it occurs to me not everyone is ancient. While theres pretty much no excuse for not knowing about Day Of The Tentacle and Sam &amp; Max: Hit The Road, its far more feasible that someone not born before the 90s would have entirely missed Full Throttle. Not because it didnt succeed  it was one of LucasArts most successful adventures, selling well over a million copies, ten times what theyd expected. But its the one thats mentioned after DOTT, S&amp;M, Grim Fandango, Fate Of Atlantis, and of course the Monkey Island series. It can lay claim to a greater place in peoples memories than LOOM, sure, but its fair to say it hasnt received the long-term adulation given elsewhere. And thats not really fair., 
, Schafers 90 heydays saw his projects become increasingly meaningful to him, delving into a world or a theme in an intimate manner, and perhaps never better than in Grim Fandango. But Full Throttle was a loving look at the land of the grease monkey, setting the more usually villainous biker character as the hero in a near-future setting where cars fly and only one company makes motorcycles any more. A company that is being brought down from within with the intention of making minivans. Minivans., The evil Adrian Ripburger (voiced by Mark Hamill, with an early demonstration of his penchant for growly-throated baddie types) murders Malcolm Corley, the founder and CEO of Corley Motors, and frames biker gang The Polecats for the crime. Ben, the gangs leader, is your character, now on the run from the police and aided by Maureen Corley, daughter of the now-late Malcolm. And so it is that you inventory puzzle your way through a beautifully painted, murky world of desert roads and run-down provinces, proving your innocence and saving the wheel., 
, On release, Full Throttle was perhaps the first sign of adventure fatigue from critics. It was 1995, and the flawless DOTT and S&amp;M had in years past rightly received rave reviews from everywhere, inducing everyone else in the industry to try to copy. The press were perhaps looking to take LucasArts down a peg, and Full Throttle provided the opportunity. It was short, the puzzles were simpler, and it had some absolutely god-awful action sequences. It didnt receive a drubbing, of course  but it did represent the beginnings of the tedious decision that the time of the adventure was coming to an end. It was the turning point, from YAY ADVENTURES! to the incessant idiocy of Adventure games are dead, apart from this one, on every release., Length really was the issue most focused on  something that just seems bizarre today in our world of hundred-million-dollar six hour FPS games. But games were big back then, and Full Throttles tale not taking so long to tell felt unusual. Something exacerbated by the other anachronistic notion from those Days Of Yore: puzzles., Its impossible to believe today, but people used to get stuck on a game and respond by stopping and thinking about it for a few hours, maybe overnight. Impossible. Try to believe it See? And yet it was true. Full Throttle wanted to move away from that, and in that ideology was deeply prescient of where the genre (and all of gaming) was heading. It wanted to offer challenges that could be solved there and then, with some hard thinking. Its completely bonkers that today the challenges in FT are FAR harder than anything youd get in a present-day point-and-clicker, but at the time not needing to wait for the next issue of your favourite gaming magazine in hope that particular puzzle might be solved in the back pages was considered anus. And indeed sped up the process of playing an already shorter game., 
, As with last years DOTT, Double Fine have done a really lovely job updating, especially with the sound. You can switch back and forth between the original mono monotony, and the superbly remixed version, and theres no contest  crisp, clear voices over unfuzzy music  its a joy. And no more joyous than the late Roy Conrads stunning performance as Ben. What a treat to hear his euphonious growling voice so distinctly. Theyve also made some neat tweaks to the interface, the contextual pop-up click menu no longer needing the mouse button to be held down, for instance. (Although you can set that back if youre mad.) The art is going to be far more in the eye of the beholder, but its undeniably faithful to the original., DOTTs remaster resulted in scenes that looked far better for being updated, and others that looked worse. I think Full Throttle sees a lot more of the latter, but because the original was just so beautiful. As I obsessively F1 between the original and remastered version in every scene, sometimes I wonder at how blurry and ill-defined key objects were on the screen, and am grateful for the improvements. But it never looks aesthetically better. The original pixel art was some of the best ever, and something is distinctly lost in the upgrading process., I believe thats a result of the process, rather than a condemnation of the new art. In trying to remain faithful to the original design, the art is restricted in a way that means it just isnt suited. I imagine the same team given the freedom to draw the scenes to their own vision could do something lovely with the style, but for me, here, it feels less than the original., , There are, unfortunately, some elements that are rather shoddy. A new ability to highlight interactive objects by pressing Shift is poorly implemented, with key objects missed and areas showing highlights where theres nothing. Plus all the new menus look haphazardly thrown together, the instruction screens especially amateurish, looking like a late 90s Geocities site. Its oddly tacky, unreflective of the core game, and disappointingly slapdash. Theres also a very welcome optional audio commentary, containing some lovely #bants about the games development from the original team, but theyve been put in really strangely., Chatter for a scene is triggered by pressing A, but is sometimes peculiarly incongruous to that moment. And frustratingly, it doesnt bother to note if youve listened, so will prompt you to press A again on return only to hear the same thing again. Yet sometimes it may have updated, so youll want to check. Nrrgghh. Weirder still, itll sometimes come in uninvited over cutscenes, meaning it collides with the in-game dialogue for a bit of chatter you cant listen to again after. The audio quality for the commentary is also really poor, everyone at different levels, the sound hissy and untidy, with conversation abruptly cut off at seemingly arbitrary points. Such a shame, as whats being said is generally splendid., 
, The ability to tweak it to the version of Full Throttle you want (Id recommend the wonderful original art with the excellent new sound and music) rules out most complaints you could have. It needs another pass for minor bugs mentioned above, but nothing is serious. In the end, this is Full Throttle made playable once again, and thats something to be celebrated. Its a really fantastic game, with a lovely story, and brilliant performances. And out of its original timeline its free to just be itself, not compared to the last or the next LucasArts adventure to hit the shelves. If you loved the original, this is worth buying for the improved sound alone. If you never played it, then oh my goodness, hurry up!, Full Throttle Remastered is out now for Windows Steam, Humble and GOG for 11/$15/15 (although currently sporting a 20% discount)

Every week we pit Brendan against the thousands of half-formed games of early access in a doomed battle for supremacy. This time, the huge and ridiculous fights of Ultimate Epic Battle Simulator., Theres not much in UEBS that isnt possible in any of the Total War series. I mean, if you discount the ability to pit masterly Chickens against a force of Orcs. Apart from that, its still about arranging vast (or small) armies on large maps and having them go at each other until one force comes out of the meat grinder without losing all their wee men. In fact, its hundreds of times more limited than a real strategy game. But many would say thats not the point. What you have here is a toy, something that aims for the simplicity of its Deadliest Warrior conceit and  just barely  hits the mark. But what kind of brawls can you create? Well, heres four epic battles we threw together to find out.Originally it was 60,000 Persians, in an attempt to model the infamous battle of Thermopopomopolae. I would have conscripted more men to help fit the legendary version of events, but the game groaned under the weight, the frame rate stuttered, and then my monitor exploded and sent splinters of pixels into my eyes. So I bumped down the Persian soldier count to 45,000 and kicked the graphics quality settings down the stairs. It looks a lot less pretty now, but it works., , As soon as the battle began, I realised something was wrong. In the set-up menu you can give the units basic orders  hold position or attack. I thought I had ordered the ogres to stand their ground in a canyon, to better recreate the Hawt Gates of the famous Greek battle. But I quickly discovered that there had been a terrible mix-up. The ogres were now flooding out of the canyon and advancing on the Persian mega-army. The Persians, meanwhile, were standing in the open, waiting patiently for the ogres to arrive, looking with bored, expressionless faces at the oncoming horrors., , But there was another problem. I had chosen this map because it was the only one with a narrow canyon (I know there wasnt really snow at the battle of Thereminorolypoly, come on). But I had neglected to take note of the maps name  Avalanche Canyon. Before the ogres even entered the clearing, they had already lost almost 100 of their number to huge boulders collapsing down on them. A third of their forces had been destroyed before a single Persian sword was swung., , When they finally reached the field, the ogres cut into the square of humans like it was a block of soft cheese. They killed 6000 men before they finally succumbed to the blows of the Persian blades. When viewed from above, it looked like someone had taken a bite out of a giant piece of toast., , So ended the battle of Thermopopoppadom., Winner: Patient Persians., , A zombie horde. A Mediterranean town. A fight with impossible odds. This summer, only six men stand between the undead and the end of the world. What men? Its [movie title appears on screen] Six Better-Than-Average US Soldiers I Created From The Custom Unit Editor., , You can fiddle with the stats of any character model in UEBS, you see. As such, I wanted to see if the explosive heroism of your average blockbuster could play out here. I made the US soldiers from the WWII era much more powerful than usual, with a faster fire rate. Then I plopped six of them down on a roof in the middle of a dusty town, with only one set of stairs leading up, facing a huge force of zeds invading the outskirts of town. This time I got the hold position orders correct., , But as the fight starts I find out that only three of the six soldiers have spawned. The other three must have fallen through the floor or something. I consider restarting but carry on with the blockbuster, deciding that half the men only makes it TWICE as heroic. Unfortunately, the soldiers take their orders very seriously and will not move or relocate even when the horde is on the street below, even when the rotting corpses are climbing the stairs, even when they stand right next to the soldiers, slashing at them with their bony man-talons. There is no skirmish tactic that lets them retreat when a foe is near., , Whats worse, the elite soldiers dont understand to pick the most pressing targets, instead choosing to fire down into the endless crowd rather than the zombie two feet to their left. Two of the soldiers die and I take control of the last survivor using a possession mechanic (you simply right-click on any troop and youre in control of them). I leap off the corner of the building in an effort to escape. I break all the bones in my body and die., , Winner: Zombie horde., , Having enjoyed the dumb brawling of For Honor (despite all its problems) I decided to make my own tiny match of it with the toys on offer here. I put the Vikings (here called Wild Men) aside and ignored the fact there are no Samurai yet included in the battle editor. Instead I pitted these three ahistorical mates against each other in the tight courtyard of a European fortress. Knights, Romans, Spartanmen., , This was, unsurprisingly, the quickest battle of the lot. The Knights, sandwiched between the others, were at a disadvantage and died quickly. But not as quickly as the Romans, who wilted like unwatered lillies at the briefest touch of a Spartan spear. At the end of the fight all six Spartans remained, surrounded by foolish corpses., Winner: Spartmans. , , The battle began as the sun rose. The penguin stared out at his frosty domain. The sky was clear, the air was fresh. All was good in the world. But through the woods a sound came, the sound of a thousand vicious Northmen. They charged out of the treeline, racing toward the Penguin Lord. The Penguin stood and watched them come, his stoic eyes considering each mortal man with sorrow and pity. He would have to fight them., , The Vikings reached their foe and took their first swings, to no avail. They surrounded the Penguin and hacked and slashed and kicked and roared. But the Penguin Lord did not falter, he did not blink. He took the blows as a sponge takes water, and then he began his slow process. He turned in a circle and picked out his first victim. A single thrust, too fast for human eyes, and the human warrior fell in a shower of blood and fear. The Penguin circled again and slowly chose his next target. Again, the fearsome deathblow came. Was it a beak to the heart? Or a razor-like flipper through the neck? Nobody can say, such are the mysteries of the Immortal Gods., , As night fell, so did men. But still the Vikings roared, still they fought bravely and without tiring. They fought long through the night, without rest and without remorse. The human spirit is indomitable, thought the Penguin sadly, as he plucked another warriors life away., , The sun rose on the next day, and the Penguin Lord stood over his domain once more. But the precious white of his snow kingdom was polluted now, amassed with blood and bone, the corpses of the valiant Northmen lying in heaps around his tiny penguin feet. No survivors. He looked sadly into the blue sky, searching for some sign of peace from the heavens. Once again he had killed a generation of men who had come to hunt him. Once again, the emptiness of a friendless life filled him with a deep remorse. So stood the Penguin Lord of Nothing, King of the Wastes.

Every week we send Brendan onto the high seas of early access to see what booty he can plunder. This time, the maritime multiplayer mayhem of Blackwake [official site]., Harrrr. Shiver my own timbers. [Aside: What else do pirates say?] Ahoy friendy! If you want to be a true-to-life sea dog just like me, the firey bosom of Blackwake awaits. Its large-scale naval warfare with crews of up to 16 people. Its what Id call a Hall-of-the-Mountain-King-like, because thats the royalty-free music that early access games often use in their trailer to invoke a sense of chaos and silliness, a musical composition that has, as a result, become a coded signal for games which are roughewn and therefore funny., And Blackwake can be funny. When youre walking along deck and you see your fellow sailor blown away in ragdoll glory by a distant and well-aimed cannon shot, its hard not to smile at their misfortune, even as you patch up the hole in the deck with your hammer. Even as you too are blasted away into the sea., , As a crewman, its your job to do something useful and follow your captains orders. They steer the ship, and youre on red alert. Tasks range from loading and firing cannons, repairing hull damage or sail damage, pumping out water, restocking the cannon supplies, or taking potshots with your musket at enemy crewmen if they are close enough. Should the opportunity arise, you might try to board the enemy. In which case, its cutlasses and broken bottles at the ready, because the guns reload at the comically true-to-life pace of a 17th century weapon., , There are a few ship sizes, with the largest being a monstrous galleon packed with cannons below deck. Theres something impressive about looking down this line of guns and seeing a man stationed at each one, ready to fire on the captains orders. And theres something claustrophobic about seeing the same place five minutes later through the blue blur of water as you all swim around trying to patch up the holes that are causing the massive hulk to sink. The battles normally feature three pirate ships versus three navy ships (although there is a 1v1 mode) with the winner being the first to diminish the enemys tickets in the style of ye olde Battlefield., At its core, its a game of teamwork. Of following orders and making sure your manpower does not go to waste. Or, if youve successfully nominated yourself as the captain on arrival, a game of giving good orders and not suffering a mutiny (this is just a player-run vote that can happen at any time). Its also wildly popular. Theres no trouble in finding a game. But there is trouble, for me, in finding a reason to stay once youve got the hang of it., , Its about repetition. I can see the appeal in having one job and doing it well. When you work side-by-side with everyone, sponger I and loader you, you become a small component in a larger machine, ready to fulfill your duty come hell or high water (and the latter is a constant worry). Its a part of what makes teamwork-based games good, what someone once described as the joy of videogames in its purest form  being assigned a task and then completing that task. But its also what keeps me from enjoying Blackwake as much as my crewmates. I can grab the powder and load the shot with the best of them. But after repeating the same tasks over and over, the fun is destined to dry up like a bone bleaching in the sun., , It feels like there is something missing from these naval skirmishes. Some essence or feature that can throw good teamwork or good captaincy into disarray.Efficiency is how you win the game, its what every captain is aiming for, but its also what makes the experience of being a sailor less interesting. Theres definitely a strategy to the battles, especially at the level of the capn. There are swivel guns that damage sails and slow your targets. Theres different types of shot to load into the cannons, some damaging hull and some damaging crew. Theres a grappling hook that can only be used if the captain gives a direct command to do so via the in-game orders. Theres a method to wearing down the enemy vessel and a method to breaking away from a dangerous chase. Theres good and bad weather that has a real impact on the fighting. When your ship gets rammed, the resulting bedlam is invariably hilarious., , But for all of this, it feels like theres still a hole in the deck. Maybe some social element beyond a player-run vote, or some motive beyond running down the enemys tickets  possibly the least interesting competitive multiplayer design since the vanilla deathmatch. Whatever it is, right now I feel like being part of a well-lubed crew is less interesting than being part of a rowdy crowd of new players. Having a terrible captain who cant cast off or doesnt know port from starboard (it me) is funnier than having one wholl give direct and perfect orders. It makes me vaguely sad that this incomplete leviathan has snuck out of the brine before the happier-looking Sea of Thieves, a game which puts booty, not kills, at the centre of crew-on-crew competition., , Its also a game of two sides  the captains game is about being a good communicator and steering in a clever or lucky enough fashion to land a good broadside while taking little damage to their own vessel. The crews game is, well, just to do the same few tasks over and over while trying not to die. The endgame, if there is one, is to become a good captain. But if you dont like barking orders and bossing people around, its not a position you can undertake with any usefulness, and youll  understandably  be booted right off the steering wheel., , Theres also a catch in terms of its design. Outside the captaincy, it has been built without any concrete roles. Every crewman can do every job. On paper that means that you can take a role and run with it all match. Become the ammo guy, delivering things to deck. Load all the cannons for everyone else, or man the sails and repair them if they become shot and ragged (a dangerous state to be in, since it slows your ship to a crawl). But in reality, every man really does every job. The captain shouts: Right side, fire! and everyone fires the [checks notes] starboard guns. The captain shouts: Repair the hull! and everyone rushes to repair the hull. On a good ship there is no specialising or role-playing. In fairness, this fluidity often leads to a more able and efficient crew. But, like I say, that also means that well-fought battles turn out to be the most dull. The weight and clunkiness of your character, always getting caught on objects, and the lack of good object signalling and UI, are the types of early access rough edges that dont help., , Theres teamwork and theres strategy and theres silliness here, for sure. But for a game about blowing your enemies away in a cloud of woody splinters, theres an odd lack of excitement in it for me. This is where people normally yell you need to play with friends! but thats the kind of industry fallacy Ive always held in high suspicion. Playing with friends improves every videogame. I still suspect plenty of people will happily load cannons and fetch supplies even without crewmates of prior acquaintance. But for my doubloons, it currently feels like a throwaway distraction. An empty hulk, not a soul below.

Blackwood Crossing [official site] is something truly beautiful, a wonderful vignette of joy and sadness, and its utterly throttled by its gruesome technical issues. It is testament to its delivery that despite this, despite playing it being akin to dragging a canoe through a lake of thick paste, and even despite the obviousness of where it was all heading, I still blubbed at the end., In Blackwood Crossing you play Scarlett, a young woman on a train, being taunted by her little brother Finn. Hes nipping about in a precocious red cape, his freckled face as obnoxious as any little brothers should be. And clearly something is wrong., , Unfortunately, before any of its superb delivery of intricately intertwined metaphors can be experienced, before I can celebrate what this game does so well, theres a far bigger something wrong that smacks you hard in the face. It is utterly sodding terrible to play., I rather outdid myself with dragging a canoe through a lake of thick paste and Im not going to beat that. Whether using controller or mouse/keyboard, oh wow, it didnt port properly, meaning moving both the camera and yourself is agonising. Gloopy, clumsy, and staggering all over the place, it falls far, far short of good enough for release. Further clues are given when you notice that the framerate is locked at 30FPS, and even so spends a good deal of the time in the high teens. Ive scanned a few of the console reviews, and none of them mention the same issues, so I can only assume this is something that happened on the rugged road to PC. It really oughtnt have been released yet  its kind of shitty that it was., , It is so lavishly beautiful at times. In an early and extraordinary scene, one of the trains carriages becomes suddenly blooms with grass, bushes, even a tree stretching up through the roof, all growing before you. As you walk through you emerge into an aureate greenhouse, magically somehow not on the train but set in a picturesque garden. Look back through the last doorway and youll see the countryside rushing past the windows of the compartment, but the view from in here is a static bucolic vista. Venturing back down the train, looking for some Polaroid photographs, I noticed the nearest seats the other side of the affected carriage have small patches of turf sprouting from them. Luxurious details. Buried alive., , At another point Finn is directing you about a lakeside scene with the goal of finding papercraft items hes created and hidden. As you hunt he gives perfectly enunciated hotter and colder variants, the hyperbolic scorching! youre melting! so freezing over there! you should expect  nay demand  from a child. He delivers these directions hanging nonchalantly off some railings surrounding the bandstand on which hes built his makeshift base. Feet tucked in on the lower metal bumps, arms out straight as he hangs backward. Its such a precise and perfect observation of a childs stature, so real and engaging, yet entirely unfussed over, possible to never notice if you dont double-back and take a look at him  hes moved by the time the tasks complete. These exquisite details are replete, each of them suffocated by the woefully broken controls., , And on it goes. I want to celebrate the wonderful way it presents memories from Finns life, a cast of characters reappearing throughout the games few locations, sets constantly redressed to further reveal the nature of the memory in which youre wandering, each character shown as an almost photo-realistic black and white (ever-so-slightly flickering) body, with a bright colourful paper mask covering their faces. How the train to which you keep returning seems so damned important, such a significant location with its lengthy stretches always so tightly confined. And the treehouse that impossibly grows from it. The details in that treehouse, the objects scattered across its shelves, the way it seems to change size, the looks Finn gives you as the two of you sit at the table therein, cutting hand-drawn butterflies from pieces of paper. And that character design. Seriously, it puts Pixar to shame. Just wow. All of these achievements sullied by being released in such a state., So how it managed to affect me so strongly really is a recognition of just how well it delivers everything else. And its worth saying it really doesnt offer any surprises. In fact, early on I thought to myself, Oh come on, not this again, desperately hoping it would be about to go somewhere genuinely unexpected. Then literally a couple of minutes later finding myself saying, out loud, Oh shit, oh shit, oh shiiiiit, as the completely expected happened and touched me anyway. As time went on, truthfully, I adjusted to the bloody dreadful controls. They didnt become less bloody dreadful, and it never stopped being mindnumbing how slowly I moved, but you know how it is  your brain recalibrates and moves some sliders and you get on with it. As it hit its inevitable final beat, I blubbed on cue*. It worked., , I dearly hope this receives a huge patch. Perhaps fistfuls of bandages and a full body cast. This could be a three-hour wonder, a really truly beautiful work to be lauded. Gosh I wish I could have written the review its unmangled form deserves. As it is, its very hard to recommend spending 12 on  already a tough call for such a short game. Its not fit for purpose, even if it could still stretch over its unacceptable flaws and reach me. I will keep an eye out, and enthusiastically let you know should such a thing come about.

A Roman-themed arena combat game that rams home the point that rogueliteish characters are entirely disposable, Domina [official site] is all about feeding meat to the grinder in the name of keeping your precarious bloodsports empire afloat. Even if you somehow keep one of your fragile gladiators alive for long, chances are theyll be begging for release from their horrific slavery before long anyway. A game of numbers as much as it is a game of death, it might just have a point to make if it werent also rubbing its hands together with salacious glee., A mutant pixel art affair, like the Delphine games of yore and as re-popularised by Superbrothers: Sword &amp; Sworcery, the slightly twisted anonymity of its characters suits Domina well. Everyone has a name, everyone has a happiness meter, but no-one actually matters. Blood for the blood god., , Though theres roguelike DNA in there  keep your characters alive and with gradually improving abilities both by not dying in combat and by meeting basic needs  its also very much on the AdVenture Capitalist/Cookie Cruncher, etc. endless numbers side of management games. Which rather fits the Roman empire theme  lives toyed with and destroyed in the name of a few rich bastards opulence and entertainment. , Though you can individually manage training and morale, really Domina is set up to have such things be auto-managed by purchasing training ground upgrades to do it for you. You, meanwhile, focus on upgrading gladiator gear (itself a matter of frantic clicking until you run out cash) and choosing which of them you send out to have an increasingly low chance of surviving arena combat vs AI gladiators and the occasional furious lion or two. I dont like lions, it turns out. Nasty habit of killing my men instantly, it turns out. Dont bring a knife to a lion fight, say I., You can, if you wish, control your gladiators directly for a spot of high-speed clicky-stabby with a side-order of basic dodging, though as a campaign wears on (presuming it doesnt end in ignominy early on, which is often the case) this can become even more lethal than allowing the AI to handle them. , , What I really like is that theres a choice  you can even specify a fighters training focus on their aptitude when under AI control, instead of, say, agility, strength, defence or weapon capability. The smart way to play is to create specialists, picking who best to send out against an enemy with a weakness in one discipline or another, but equally it can all be auto-managed if youre feeling overwhelmed., Most of the time, youre spending your winnings on buying new gear, picking team-wide new skills or building upgrades while Domina unstoppably ticks through in-game days until the next fight. Everyone needs to be kept fed and watered too, so running out of cash is potentially lethal  even you, as the gladiators silent, cash-strapped owner, can starve or thirst to death. , , Also in the mix is keeping a couple of opposing officials happy via a combination of wine-based bribery and occasional make-a-choice text pop-ups, in order that they might cover some of your costs or sell you new flesh for the endless sausage-making-machine. A fair few other elements too, like recruiting NPCs to auto-heal or selecting which blessings to apply to your fighters, but really the meat of the game is training up guys then praying they dont die, leaving you with a handful of rookies. Its a bit like XCOM in that regard, but with more leather jockstraps., As the game escalates from one-on-one battles to e.g. teams of eight vs. eight and semi-optional boss fights against ultra-gladiators, near-total wipe-outs are eminently possible, and indeed occur with brutal speed. Between that and cash/food/water/morale, its one of those games you should expect to completely fail most times you play  and often you wont see it coming., , This is the design. In fact, so determined is Domina that its a done-in-a-session affair that it currently lacks any kind of save feature, including the now-traditional save and exit. Quit and youll lose all progress  because the idea is that youll never make more than an hour or two of progress anyway. This is about doing the same thing time and again to see how far you can get via a mix of chance and decision-making. It has Twitch interaction built-in  its one of those sorts of games. , I appreciate the intent, and admittedly it doesnt take long to get back up to speed in a new campaign, but sadly it conflicts with the reality that none of us can guarantee a certain amount of time, and knowing that youll lose everything if youre called away unexpectedly or your damn cat stands on your PCs power button yet again rankles. The Binding of Isaac has save and quit, yknow (other than in daily runs)? So Ill be surprised if it doesnt end up being patched in here too., , The other fly in an otherwise enjoyable if rather transitory enjoyment is that Domina is swaddled in extremely sweary voiceover. Its trying to be comic, but most of its gags dont go further than man says a naughty word. Its clearly playing to the gallery, and theres again a certain thematic appropriateness here given that gladiatorial events werent exactly renowned for their decorum, but its neither edgy or offensive  just repetitive and tiresome. , Fortunately, Domina as a game isnt. It has quite a few moving parts, but each part is very simple. It really is oddly similar to one of those keep-clicking-the-numbers games, but pinned with a more meaningful structure and shallow but engagingly frantic combat. Throughout, I was conscious that I was playing something that was almost aggressively designed to be disposable, and for that reason I cant say it feels close to my heart  but at the same time, I might just keep it hanging around my hard drive to fill idle half-hours now and again. 

Utopia is the first major expansion for Stellaris, Paradox Development Studios 4X, grand strategy space hydra. Its a term that normally conjures up images of a perfect society, all green and chill and maybe a little like Star Treks United Federation of Planets. Thats nice, I guess, but what if your idea of perfection is building a civilization on the backs of robotic slaves? And what about a monstrous hive of ravenous beasties that wont rest until all matter in the universe has been consumed? What would its utopia look like? Ive been experimenting with a galaxy-sized petri dish to find out. , You dont need to get very far into Stellaris to see the impact of Utopia and its accompanying free patch, titled Banks. The moment you enter your species-creating laboratory, things should immediately look pretty different. , , Crafting a government now involves picking components from three distinct lists: ethics, authority and civics. Ethics arent entirely new, but there are a couple of replacements  egalitarianism and authoritarianism  that change the statistical bonuses found within the concentric circles that help define your society. Your picks then inform what type of governments your newly-spawned civilisation can construct by selecting an authority, like democratic or imperial, and then civics. The latter is a meaty list from which you can choose two civics, running the gamut from shadow council, conferring a 50 percent bonus to influencing elections, to mechanist, which gives you droids to play with right from the get go. , Ive got a penchant for making techy, nerdy aliens with a hard-on for robots, but until Utopia, a lot of that had to be just in my head. Sure, I could invest in more research facilities and eventually make a breakthrough that allowed me to build automatons, but any species can do that. In Utopia, there are considerably more ways to make my eggheads stand out. Its possible to start developing a society of machines from day one, and with other civics, small but important boosts to research make it clear to everyone in the galaxy: these lab coats aint just for show., , This extra fine-tuning leads to a greater sense of control, and that feeling that youre able to better determine the direction of your species extends well beyond the species creator, notably thanks to traditions. These are, essentially, Stellaris very own version of national focuses, which you might be familiar with if youve dabbled in Paradoxs flagship grand strategy game, Europa Universalis. , By spending a new resource, unity, trees can be unlocked, each containing five bonuses themed around a specific ideology, of which there are seven. Reducing unrest, lowering ship costs, unlocking new types of colony ships  traditions affect every aspect of Stellaris while also providing empires with a more distinct identity. They also ensure that progression feels constant. Even when youre well into the end-game, development persists., , The real benefit of the tradition system takes a bit of time to reveal itself, however. See, once youve unlocked all five of them in a single tree, you can choose an ascension perk, and this is where Paradox have gone all out in creating the fantasy of leading a highly advanced, space-faring empire. Some of the perks confer massive bonuses, like the world shapers 100 percent increase in terraforming speed. But the ones youll really want to play around with have an even more tangible impact. Synthetic evolution turns your entire species into robots. Transcendence makes everyone telepathic. And there are three different perks that let you construct fancy sci-fi megastructures like space habitats, Dyson spheres and, yes, finally, ringworlds. , It takes a significant amount of time to access these game-changing perks, and then even more time, resources and research to implement them. You wont be turning your population into machines or consuming every planet in a solar system to create a massive ringworld right away, but the early-game is already busy enough as it is. What they do is highlight possible directions, nudging empires down different, logical paths with massive rewards waiting for you once youve put in the time. , , Synthetic Evolution doesnt just make everyone robots  it means that you can happily colonise any potentially habitable planet regardless of the biome. Oh yeah, and everyone becomes immortal. Conveniently, robots dont eat, either, so its no longer necessary to worry about food production, at least not for your synthetic citizens. Priorities change, then, and new avenues open up, blessing the later parts of Stellaris with the novelty and sense of discovery that was previously more evident in the earlier exploration and colonisation phase., If expansion and developing new colonies are what you crave the most, you dont need to stop, either. Even once youve exhausted every colonisable planet, its possible to continue growing your vast space empire through habitats, which can orbit most worlds, creating more room in which a multitude of citizens can be crammed, along with plenty of resource-generating buildings. Ringworlds, meanwhile, can turn unappealing solar systems into megastructures that are effectively four Gaia-class planets all rolled into one gargantuan building encircling a sun. , , Despite the aforementioned constant progression, the benefits of traditions can threaten to become a little redundant, and while the purpose they serve is an important one, forcing players to unlock an entire tree to get a perk strips away some flexibility. , Take the journey of my space nerds, for instance. I started by focusing on the discovery tree, with its myriad bonuses to exploration and science, which made complete sense for my friendly species of scientists who liked mathematics more than conquest. With that tree complete, I selected the perk that gave me a 10 percent buff to research. I was doing a lot of building and working on a beefy fleet, so the prosperity tree was a natural next step, and once that was complete, I turned everyone into a cyborg. As you do. But by the time Id gone down yet another tree and finally created a perfect synthetic species, I found myself a bit stumped. I had both the time and inclination to get several new perks, but none of the trees really seemed relevant to either the theme of my empire or my needs. So I was going through the motions, unlocking more unnecessary traditions just so I could get to the good stuff. , , More choices would certainly help, but the real problem is the rule that you must work your way through every single tradition in a tree before getting access to a new perk. That Stellaris makes so many playstyles and paths viable  normally a boon  becomes an issue here because inevitably youre going to have to spend a vast amount of unity on things that simply dont matter to you. , While this system attempts  and sometimes succeeds  to solve the problem where, once youve build the foundations of your empire, theres a lot of waiting around for interesting things to happen, it can sometimes exacerbate it. It is not, however, alone, and is joined in its effort by a reworked faction system. Previously, factions were effectively just rebellious groups of dissidents, but now they can represent political parties or large movements, like religious groups railing against a secular empire. And they dont all exist in opposition to the establishment. They might fully support it. This depends on their values and objectives, and if theyre being catered to. , , Factions can be managed indirectly by studying their values and then attempting to pander to them. If a faction demanding better treatment for aliens is getting a bit upset, maybe consider not enslaving every new species you meet? But there are also direct actions you can take by suppressing them, promoting their ideology, or fully embracing them, potentially changing the ethics of your society. Ignoring them increases the chances of creating unrest, as citizens become unhappy, which can lead to riots, terrorism and schisms within the empire. This adds continuous agency and personality to populations while making engaging with them considerably more compelling than simply dealing with angry rebels, and importantly its clear how you can solve any problems that they might create. , But you know who doesnt care about factions? Hive Minds. By picking the Hive Mind ethic when you create your species, you get a unique authority separate from the other political systems and your own set of civics that make your rather disturbing new species completely distinct. Hive Minds dont suffer from unhappiness, they dont create factions, they consume any aliens that live inside their empires, and any member of the Hive Mind that leaves will eventually die. , , The impact of playing a Hive Mind seeps into almost every element of Stellaris, sometimes in minor ways, but frequently major ones. How you approach expansion or dealing with other species is dramatically different. And theres a certain appeal in playing an organic machine that feeds on other lifeforms and doesnt give two hoots about comfort or happiness. In a Hive Minds utopia, everyone is on the same page and working towards the same goals. But playing as this single-minded tyrant also means forgoing some of Stellaris best new features, like the increasingly complex political game and population management. If you need a break from intensive micromanagement, however, then Hive Minds may prove to be a seductive prospect. , Utopia and the accompanying free update fix a great many niggles found within Stellaris. Storytelling and discovery have always been the games strong points, while empire management and politics could sometimes feel a bit underwhelming, especially when things start to slow down by the middle of the game. While not every issue is solved, great strides have been made towards maintaining the games pace from the start, fleshing out populations and generally making the galaxy feel even more alive and more diverse. , However! Factions, most civics, traditions, the reworked government system and a multitude of other tweaks and improvements are all available for free with the Banks patch. Utopia enhances them, adding the more advanced civics, ascension perks and megastructures, but its really just building on the excellent foundations created by the update. These enhancements are great, sometimes even game-changing, but Paradox are offering so much for free that it makes the actual premium DLC less vital.

What a peculiar thing is Bulletstorm: Full Clip Edition [official site]. Its Bulletstorm from six years ago, that entertaining FPS, but this time with an optional additional mode that is loads worse. Thatll be full price, please!, Bulletstorm rather inexplicably didnt sell well. It was a big budget FPS that tossed aside all the bullshit bathos that polluted the genre then and now, focusing on gore, explosions and naughty swears. Competent, well written (comic guru Rick Remender wrote the dumb-but-smart script), and incessantly bombastic, it completely delivered. It should have been a hit. People Can Fly managed to be boorish without being vile. But modest sales were not enough to convince the bossmen it was worth persisting with a sequel. Oh, and the PC version was gruesomely strangled by GFWL at the time, which certainly didnt help matters., , It has been, they say, visually upgraded, 4K resolutions added, and Ill assume thats true. The original version is gone from the inter-shops (owned by EA, its not even on Origin), so I cant really compare. I remember that it looked extremely pretty back then, and it looks extremely pretty now (outside of cutscenes, that look bizarrely awful), so that likely means its been much upgraded. Six year old pretty tends to look pretty crummy in the present, and this certainly doesnt. Although close-ups of faces reveal the passage of time, and some textures are pretty cruddy, the vistas remain breathtaking. Saying that, looking at old screenshots its hard to tell the difference, but this more stands as testament to how damned good it looked back then., You dont need me to review Bulletstorm again. I really enjoy it, despite its being a corridor shooter  it gets the constricted genre exactly right, allowing inventive, improvised combat within its narrow walls, charging from ridiculous set-piece to more ridiculous set-piece without pause, and it does it well. You can read Quintins original review, our group verdict of the game, and Alices more recent reflections on the fun it offered. We really like the original Bulletstorm, present here, and we havent changed our minds. Its great, you cant buy the original any more, and so if you never did you should., , So now its back, olden DLC included, and with new DLC that, oh, replaces the central character with Duke Nukem. Oh., What a weird decision. Its like re-releasing Bladerunner but replacing Harrison Ford with Mel Gibson. True Lies, but with Arnies role portrayed by Dane Cook. The Wicker Man, but Edward Woodward usurped by Nicolas Cage  oh wait. Its so madly out of touch with reality, a decision made by a boardroom so isolated from actual air-breathing humans that they think Duke Nukem is anything other than a weary punchline. And, naturally, the results are a disaster., Of course this is an optional mode, offered as a pre-order bonus or separate DLC, but if you played the original then its really the only new content available. And wow, its shoddy. Its a straight replacement of former hero Grayson Hunt with the ever-dreary Duke, with all original dialogue from the flat-topped anti-hero. And only him. Leading to the incessant farce that his hastily bashed out lines absolutely do not fit in to the game, clashing amateurishly with the original dialogue spoken by the rest of the cast. And yes, I scarequote original, because its as fresh as Dukes lines ever were. (Those old enough to have enjoyed Duke Nukem 3D will recall his most famous lines just happened to have been previously uttered by the likes of They Live and Evil Dead.), , Now, had this been handled with flare and grace it could have been pretty funny. Alas. Duke fairly early on gives up correcting people who call him Gray, and instead just says tired, borrowed action dialogue that doesnt quite match up with the conversation around him. Occasionally it rather desperately resorts to Dukes saying pretty much the same line as the original in order for there to be any sense, and this always entirely contradicts the rest of his character. It feels clumsy, so much so that when it then tries to be self-referential about this, it feels more like its laughing at you for having paid than itself for having failed., Worst of all, so haphazardly has the replacement been done that Duke uses all the same animations as Gray  it is, really, no more than a reskinning  and this becomes problematic when it comes to the lip-sync. Which is  obviously  ludicrous as a result. Dukes mouth moves while hes silent, stays still while hes talking, and if the two happen to line up, clearly dont match. Its pretty surprisingly shoddy stuff. And Jon St. Johns delivery is as bad as Ive ever heard., And so pointless! Its not like Gray was a mild-mannered accountant to be amusingly contrasted by the crass and foul-mouthed Duke. Grays typical dialogue consisted of lines like, You scared the dick off me! He already was a far, far more entertaining and well-written character in the same mold as Gearboxs long-loathed license. It reeks of desperation., , There are six more Echoes maps for the single-player speed runs/high score tasks, although Im not sure if that extends to the much more fun Ultimate Echoes challenge modes. They dont say, and my memory isnt that good. It also offers the splendid-sounding Overkill Campaign mode, with all weapons and Skill Shots unlocked from the start, which sounds like it would be tremendous fun. Would be, because for no good reason its not available from the start, isnt mentioned anywhere by the game, and will only appear once youve completed the game. Hey, guess what? I completed the game six years ago. Sigh. It certainly doesnt help that the games marketing info doesnt mention this is locked., So its an odd bag, really. Bulletstorm is lots of silly fun, and deserved to do better in 2011. Its still lots of silly fun, but its hard to quite get as behind the desire for it to do well when its being released at full price with very little new put in. Refreshed graphics, 4K support, increased polygons you absolutely wont appreciate unless youve got a video mode on your photographic memory  thats the sort of thing youd hope to see in a patch. Its great that its in there, and the game unquestionably looks lovely  Ive obviously no idea how much of a slog it was to achieve this. But when new modes are restricted to a few more Echoes maps, and even the shitty Duke mode is a separate piece of DLC for those who didnt pre-order (which is everyone, right?), its not a bedazzling offer. Not least when the new game plus mode is locked, despite your having finished the game over half a decade ago., At a budget price reflecting the age of the game and the lack of new content, this would be such an easy recommendation. Especially as I could so easily recommend you not waste your money on the cruddy half-arsed Duke DLC mode. At 30 thats a tougher call for you to make.

Every week we send Brendan to investigate the seedy underworld of early access. This time, interrogating the robots of Bot Colony [official site]., Bot Colony, according to its own boast, is the first video game featuring intelligent conversation as its key gameplay feature. You speak into a microphone and ask questions of the robot characters, or give them commands. You might remember Chris attempting to put books on shelves using this voice recognition feature. You might also remember him failing miserably. Well, its been some time since then and we thought wed give it another shot in this video special. Read on and watch my own doomed attempt to communicate with mankinds newest mistake., This time, the robot has the added challenge of interpreting a Celtic accent, a task at which voice recognition is famously terrible. I am used to changing my vowels into a mock English for the benefit of confused administration staff who dont understand when I say that I was born in aidy-aid. And there is definitely some of that here. But I was not prepared for the level of misunderstanding these robots would have at the words name or who and their lack of comprehension of individual letters of the alphabet. At the bottom of the screen you can see where my words were interpreted., This is supposed to be a training sequence, the first of three planned missions but I sadly would not get any further. The robot has witnessed a break-in. A spy has stolen an important piece of tech (an advanced sensor) from a Japanese scientists home. You need to question the bot and piece together the exact order of events through its responses. Sometimes you get video records of what the bot has seen, but often he will just rattle off some facts in a hugely specific fashion. The robots name is Jimmy. He is the worst domestic robot I have ever met., , As you can see the interrogation was almost entirely fruitless. Voice recognition and AI responses are not really at a stage when you can have an intelligent conversation with a machine, no matter what the games blurb might say. Even Alexa and Siri fall to pieces under pressure. However, the experience of repeating the word who into a microphone countless times has made me sympathise for all future homicide detectives who bring in a robotic witness. Its true that you can edit the phrase youre saying in the typebox, or just type all your questions from the start. But that kinda defeats the purpose and appeal of the game. Its a mystery about chatting to robots, not texting them., Im not sure what the thinking was behind having so many Japanese names in the story, either. Surely an English-language machine would be more comfortable with John or Sarah, rather than Masaya and Ayame (no matter what demands the plot has)? And surely the player, more likely to be English-speaking than Japanese-speaking, would be equally glad of simple, recognisable names in a conversation that requires clarity. Its just one of the worlds details that feels counterproductive., , Before you begin, Windows sets up your voice recognition. You have to speak certain lines into the microphone as part of a voice test that lasts about fifteen minutes, much of it instructions on how to treat the robot (instructions which hint at the low level of cognition your robot is really going to have). But seeing that one test was clearly not enough, I exited out and tried to give the machine more to work with. Thats when you see me bumping out to desktop, whereupon I read out the games convoluted back story in my best storytime voice and hoped that it would be enough. It was not enough., Im sure this is working more confidently for some than for myself. Aside from the accent issue, more voice tests are supposed to lead to better results. But each test takes a long time and theres no guarantee that three or four or five tests will make the interpreter as clever as it would need to be to follow directions that are more complex than pick up X or walk forwards two metres. I also realised with hindsight that many words are probably saved in the robots thick skull as American. So when I said, turn on the tap, I really ought to have said turn on the faucet. Although there is the added trouble of not knowing which objects in the house can be interacted with and which are purely environmental. Its all very messy., , The truth is, I went in knowing that it would be janky. But I didnt expect it to be this janky. And I wanted to be surprised at the machines awareness. This comes across sometimes, when you insult it, for instance, and it detects the hostility (sorry, Jimmy). But mostly the game is a victim of a multi-layered problem. First, the voice recognition can be laughable. Second, the robots interpretation of your questions and commands is as overly strict and non-malleable as youd expect. Third, the actual game itself doesnt help matters. Trying to collect video recordings isnt very exciting and putting pieces of furniture back into their pre-thievery positions is no more fun than when you played spot the difference on the back of your Honey Cheerios box., No. It is a game wholly reliant and marketed on its technology, which feels so much more absurd the more you attempt to communicate with the machine. I suspect it will be better for people with hours of voice recognition testing behind them (not to mention the exact accent the robot was designed for), and there is also an element of learning the right commands and sticking to that cheatsheet of robot lines. Its also admirable, from a technology perspective, to pursue projects like this. The ideal  to talk to a robot and have it understand you  is one worth chasing. But with a learning process as daft as this, I couldnt face going through it all when the story and surrounding tasks are so wafer thin. That, and Jimmy really, really annoyed me.

Yooka-Laylee, the crowdfunded colourful 3D platformer, is essentially a sequel to Banjo-Kazooie and Banjo-Tooie just wearing different pyjamas. Where Nuts &amp; Bolts took the franchise in a slightly different direction, Yooka-Laylee is an unapologetic return to the N64 formula of cheeky humour, bright playgrounds and collectibles coming out the wazoo. Playing it is like discovering theres an episode of a favourite TV show you somehow missed at the time. Heres Wot I Think:, Yooka-Laylee is actually a buddy game where chamaeleon (Yooka) and bat (Laylee) are searching for a book stolen by the villainous bee, Capital B. Capital B is using a sort of global literature vacuum to suck books into his keeping and I think hes looking to use the golden pages from Yooka-Laylees book in particular to finish off a gold statue of himself? It seems so long ago now that all of that was explained. , What you are mostly doing isnt really narrative-based, though. You open up worlds, collect Pagies (those golden pages) by performing tasks or completing minigames within the worlds and then use those Pagies to open up more worlds or to expand the content of the ones youve already found until you finally reach your showdown with Capital B., , Along the way you collect all manner of other bits and pieces  golden quills are a currency you use to unlock new special moves from a snake named Trowzer, ghost writers are these little coloured spirits which can be captured in particular conditions, other doodads will extend your life and so on and so on. Youll also learn to shoot fire, ice, grenades, water as well as ingesting objects to take on their properties  cannonballs will make you heavier and stop you being blown away in windy areas. If you know the N64 games youll be able to mentally swap out Jinjos and Jiggies for most of the new vernacular. , Similarly, theres Dr Puzz who offers to transform you into planes or boats or plants or whatnot if youll find the Molly Cule hidden in each world. Shes this games version of Mumbo Jumbo or Humba Wumba in the original and Im glad they opted for this approach rather than trying to do anything with shamanism again. Thats one aspect of the older games I find myself wincing at even though I didnt notice it as a kid. , , Its a testament to both the enduring appeal of Banjo-Kazooie and the faithful nature of the sequel that at some point I gave up calling it Yooka-Laylee and just started referring to the game as Banjo-Kazoodle as I used to when I was younger. You can probably also get a sense for how much Banjo-Kazoodle I played on the N64 and how successfully Yooka-Laylee recreates that mindset by the fact I kept accidentally trying to perform old moves like the Beak Barge and Bill Drill to solve problems. Its like falling through a dimensional rift and playing an old favourite  familiar but different., An interesting facet of this revival is that it recreates those old games for better and for worse. , I was delighted to see colourful Rare-esque landscapes again and read that familiar style of dialogue  teasing but not mean-spirited and with a bundle of innuendo thrown in. Properly delighted. I dont think Id realised how uncommon it was now or thought anyone would even try to bring it back. , , I liked the manageable chunks of gaming you get in dividing things up into these minigames and I liked the way that the whole thing is geared around a manageable number of collectibles so the experience doesnt spiral off into a tedious Ubi-esque collectathon strapped to a narrative. Collecting is the point of the game rather than the thing designed to compel you to clean up a map and stay in the game longer than you really want. , Theyve also done something good with the underwater segments. Underwater is generally the bane of my life in this kind of game but theres a special move that lets you encase yourself in a bubble and thus run around underwater as if its on land. I was embarrassingly grateful for NOT having to swim if I didnt want to. , , The other pleasing thing is the expansion you unlock for the worlds. Its a nice halfway house between Banjo-Kazooie, which had relatively small worlds, and Banjo-Tooie whose sprawl was genuinely impressive but also overwhelming. You start off with the basic version of the world and then collect enough Pagies to expand the book. That adds extra buildings/challenges/pathways and so you go back in having got the lay of the land and start exploring the new bits., On the less impressive side, there are a bunch of niggles. The most persistent of them is the camera. The camera angles are exactly as awkward and unhelpful at times as they were in the original. You go through a doorway and the camera is often facing you so the first thing you have to do is reverse your directions for a few moments while you re-orient yourself. If youre on a section where the devs have decided a top-down camera is more useful it can be a right pain transitioning out of that  you go to leave, leaving switches to a new camera angle, the direction youre heading becomes something different in relation to the new camera angle and you run back into the top-down view. Those are the most obvious issues but youll encounter camera wrestling at various points throughout. , , Flying is a pain in the bum, too. Its the new swimming. It can be really hard to tell where you are in 3D space, plus you also get a bunch of unhelpful camera angles as part of being airborne. There are also niggles like pulling back on the analogue stick (I will only play this on controller) generally meaning you want to go backwards but when flying it means you descend so turning is the most awkward thing. Oh, and through flying youll find ledges and platforms it looks like you should be able to land on, then reach them only to discover theyre invisible walls. Invisible walls are awful. , Some of the minigames really outstay their welcome, too. There are races you compete in with a little cloud and they just go on far too long, especially for the speed youre travelling at. If you dont complete them first or second time they become a truly boring slog. Same with the minecart races and the retro arcade games  Id enjoy them if they were half the length but they just end up feeling bloated. , , I should add that Yooka-Laylee continues the grand tradition of not believing in maps. It shows you things youve unlocked in relation to other things by zooming out from them with a cut scene/shot. But when youre shown a lot of stuff (in the case of expanding a world, for example) its really difficult to keep track of whats just happened. You can also lose your bearings if you unlock multiple new areas when in a different form. I was pottering round as a little ship and I blasted my way through several obstacles to open up new areas all in one go so I didnt have to go through the palaver of transforming multiple times, and then wasnt sure if Id actually managed to find them all again in my regular form. , One final gripe is that the boss fights are dull. Theyre the familiar rinse and repeat of doing a thing until the boss gets cranky, then doing variations on that thing until you defeat them. I actually enjoyed meeting them because their characters were generally amusing in that first instance, but going through the intro dialogue multiple times quickly lost any charm it once had. Same for the fights themselves. , The final boss fight is the dullest of the bunch which is a shame as at least the others arent mandatory for finishing the game. It both outstays its welcome by a long shot and fails to do anything interesting with the mechanics of fighting. You just run through an overlong set of repetitions of the various moves until you get to the next section of the fight. Unskippable cut scenes partway through, dialogue you cant speed through, no checkpointing, no health refresh options, no kind of acknowledgement that youve mastered any of the components these all come together to make defeating Capital B a slog which soured the end of the experience considerably. , , This is the interesting part, for me. Not the part where Im playing the game and being irritated by those things, but how inextricably linked to the whole experience they are. Ive never had particularly rose-tinted specs for games I loved as a kid, I dont think. Im fond of them, but I also remember how cross these boss fights made me and how fed up Id get not being able to make a jump or find a thing or get my bearings when swimming or flying or having to repeat a race for the umpteenth time. So when you make a game like Yooka-Laylee where you want to recreate the feeling of playing something like Banjo-Kazoodle what do you do?, If you strip out the annoying parts or rework them do you lose something crucial about the experience of the game as a whole? I think there are corrections that would be easy to make without disrupting the flow or the whole. Things like shortening those aforementioned races, or cutting out the intro dialogue from boss fights. The change to underwater movement was also welcome without feeling unfaithful. , , Maps are a little more awkward because they involve adding a UI element that wasnt present in the original as well changing the way you approach navigation. Generally the games trade in you seeing something interesting and heading towards it, or seeing a bunch of uncollected golden quills and knowing you havent been to that area yet. A map would remove that, but would also help guard against the feeling of wandering aimlessly which can set in when youve collected the obvious Jiggies Pagies and are trying to find out whats left. , This is perhaps what the tonic system is trying to help with. Tonics are things you unlock by meeting various targets like stunning a certain number of enemies or collecting a number of ghost writers. You are allowed to equip one at a time and they do things like make your power bar fill up faster. One tonic helps you find collectibles so you equip it and if you go near a hidden extra youll get notified with some more game sounds. It doesnt get rid of the aimless wandering, but it can reduce it a bit. , , Im aware that Ive spent a lot of time talking about the things which frustrate me, but I want to make sure I say that Ive been having a lovely time. It doesnt quite get back the magic of the originals  the expansion system means it lacks the diversity of worlds for one thing, and for another you cant recreate that nineties wonder of me feeling like this is the biggest game Ive ever seen! when Ive played Minecraft or Skyrim or DayZ or anything else in the intervening years  but it brings enough of what I loved about the older incarnations that I willingly binged on it over the weekend where usually I keep those days free from work tasks. , Im far less sure of how someone without that attachment to the originals will perceive the mix of flaws and strengths. For me the chance to revisit one of my first game infatuations did reduce the annoyances, or at least they became part and parcel of going back  you take the irritants with the joys because without it it wouldnt be the same. , But I want to end by highlighting that this is a friendly game regardless of whether you had an N64 two decades ago. That feels like a valuable commodity at this point in time. Yooka-Laylee is bright, its positive, its daft and it wants to play with you. And thats lovely.

If theres one thing Im sick of, it means Ive had some sort of head injury and forgotten the many, many, copious things Im also sick of. But amongst their number is the cavalcade of recent games that feel the need to try to trick me into learning computer programming. You know, Im good thanks. Im 40 this year, my brain has pretty much established over multiple attempts that it just isnt willing to let in computer programming, along with French, the difference between affect and effect [not to mention defuse and diffuse -ed.], and the HTML for embedding an email address. You program the games, Ill play them. Ta., Anyway, so theres a nice new puzzle game out called Bomb Squad Academy [official site], a game about defusing bombs against the clock, and  WAIT A SECOND! This games teaching me electronics! Why I oughtta, And it does it really rather well., , The key difference here, from my mini-rant above, is that this isnt pretending to be something its not. Its not a platform game where you weirdly have to keep running through OR gates. Bomb Squad Academy is very unashamedly about teaching the basics of electronics, and the crucial thing is, its managed to make that process immediately applied, and decent fun. As I play through its relatively simple challenges, I just keep thinking, Good grief, if only I could have had this in 1994 instead of a tired physics teacher and some clapped out electronics boards., Approach it as an educational tool, rather than the latest in puzzle gaming innovation, and it does its job splendidly. The game is, in effect, one long tutorial, each new level adding in a new component (best pun Ive ever used) like wiring, capacitors, XOR gates, and so on. But whats so crucial is that its instantly applied., I think the main reason all these basics went over my head at school was that so much was taught as floating theory, pencil-drawn circuit diagrams and faith. The theory of AND, OR and XOR gates are simple enough, but if you want to truly learn something, have it embed in your cranium, you need to apply it. , , What better application than pretending if you make a mistake youll die. Youre disabling bombs, and that involves studying the circuit board, looking whats powering what, and working out a way to send power from the source to the LEDS marked Disarm. Except without accidentally powering up Detonate. That leads to a rather big bang, and a message informing you of your demise. With its digital countdowns, theres always plenty of time to solve a puzzle, but limiting you to a minute or two ensures theres a degree of pressure. (Sensibly theres an option to make these times much longer, for any who might need that.) When the boards start getting a lot more complex, it requires a deliberate effort to stay calm, do the diligent work, and not just panic and cut wires at random. Because when you do make a mistake, the explosion is instantaneous and makes me jump every single time., Bomb Squad is neatly presented, if a little stuffily. It cant really escape from being a collection of circuit boards with a countdown timer, but its all tidy and clear. The writing in those rather formal-looking pop-ups, however, is bright and cheerful, and most importantly, encouraging. And when it comes to games as educational tools, it entirely avoids the most dreadful pitfall of them all: wackiness. Phew., , There are a couple of issues. Ive encountered a bug where I couldnt get the Level Select screen to do anything, which required a restart. And oh good lord, the music is horrible. The music played in the lift that descends to hell. Kill it, kill it with bombs and options screens. But beyond this, its a solid set up, functional rather than snazzy, but thats appropriate to the task., It also manages to achieve that bomb defusing essential  the moment of nervous uncertainty when you cut a wire, either leading to a sudden explosion, or the relief of simple nothingness., , You may be thinking, Hang on, werent Introversion working on a bomb game? and youre right. This time last year they revealed Wrong Wire alongside Scanner Sombre as a prototype, and I had a play of it at the time. It was pretty good! But Bomb Squad Academy really doesnt tread on its toes. Introversions game is a pure puzzler, and a lot more involved in terms of techniques. Although weve not heard a peep about it since. Meanwhile, Academy is entirely focused on tricking you into learning some basic electronics., And thats enough. I heartily encourage you to grab this if youve got a kid trying to learn it at school. Heck, if youre a physics teacher you really should buy a bunch of copies, as thisll be a surefire way to gain the attention of some of your students. Or if you just fancy reminding yourself about logic gates, pulse generators and capacitors, this is a neat little thing. Id love to pretend I viewed it all as a smug expert pondering its usefulness for younger players, but thats just flat-out not true  it taught me a whole bunch, as hard as I tried not to learn anything.

Smarter than half a dozen BioShocks despite looking a bit like it fell from a lost GameCube promotional disc, Snake Pass [official site] is an animal physics game without the slapstick comedy that often entails. (Tail, like a snake has). , Im not sure if its best referred to as a platformer or a puzzle game. The main activity in Snake Pass is progressing from one platform to another, but where historically (hiss, like a snake) platformers involve high-speed bounding from place to place, this is about slow-speed slithering, climbing and clenching. Youre a snake, see. Snakes dont jump, apart from in that bit in David Attenborough when one of them snatches a hummingbird out of the air or something., , , Snakes crawl. Snakes squeeze. Snakes wrap their long, legless bodies around things. So, what you need to learn here is how to be a snake. Its an excellent (eggs, like Im 90% sure snakes lay) concept and smartly delivered, despite the superficially kiddy skin (skin, like snakes shed). , Just to cover the appearance quickly before I slither (slither, like no, I guess you got that one already) off to talk about how it works. Its attractive and cheesy in equal measure. The Unreal engine gives the tropical theme park-esque environments a lovely lush sheen, while the few characters that there are are on the sub-Disney side of things. , Which I dont begrudge (grudge, like snakes have against mongooses) at all, but simply feel that its hey kids! appearance is somewhat at odds with how bastard hard this thing can be. That said, I suspect the average 10 year old is infinitely better at games than I am. Anyway, Id file Snake Passs aesthetic under inoffensive, and am simply satisfied that it doesnt interfere with the smart, challenging physics-puzzling., , Snake Pass is, like all platformers, all about movement. Movement here is very different from the norm, due to the lack of legs (legs, like snakes lack). Even simply moving forwards over even terrain is glacially slow  to pick up speed, you need to rhythmically turn left and right, creating the s-shaped crawl that snakes are known for (s-shaped crawls, like snakes are known for). Thing is, you wont spend much time at all on even terrain, and more commonly have to apply that thinking to crawling along or, crucially, up poles and other constructions that invariably hang precariously over fatal drops. (Wilhelm screams, like snakes dont actually do). , With judicious use of directional controls, the key trick is wrap yourself around something so you wont simply fall off it, then inch along or up. There are moments when this becomes a natural, steady flow, the snake looping effortlessly around a series of poles as your hands dance gently across the controls, and others were progress is minute and stressful. , , As well as pure movement, also in the mix is a grip button that locks part of the snakes curled form in place, boa constrictor style, and one that calls a near-constant bird companion to lift your tail in the air in order to prevent its weight from dragging you down to Earth/into a bottomless chasm. Doing well at Snake Pass usually requires a sustained fluidity of control in addition to sussing out where you need to go and how not to fall off it  i.e. both dexterity and logical thinking., If it sounds fiddly, it is. If it doesnt sound fiddly, it is. But not bad fiddly. In some ways it puts me in mind of a more accessible take on GIRP and CLOP  consciously mapping controls against convention and instead with an interest in more accurately replicating reality. Smiley vegetarian snake and islands full of cheery mystical relics aside, that is. Its one of those games where you can be deep into it and your mind switches into working on its wavelength  everything feels natural  but the next time you play, it feels like trying to ride a bike with your head. , , I dig both states, the former because I feel in the zone, the latter because seeming small achievements like getting to the top of this short tower or that plateau feel absolutely immense. It can hurtle into real difficulty though, like pulling levers in mid-air or timing a series of falls just so, and Ill admit to moments of acute frustration. , I like Snake Pass best when it allows multiple, ad hoc-feeling solutions to the core challenge of how to get over there or on top of that, and a little less when theres only one, precise way to do it and it takes me potentially dozens of attempts to do so. But its that sort of game  either you want that persistent challenge or you dont., Most of all, I marvel at how well its done snakes (snakes, like snakes). This could, as I say, have been all comic pratfalls and Goat Simulator destruction, but instead its an extremely careful study in how snakes navigate their bizarre bodies around, then transplanted into broadly well-done puzzle-places. I feel in awe of how well-realised this is, almost more than I actually enjoy it. I really do enjoy it though, so much so that I ended up picking it up for my Switch too (making it only the second game I own for Nintendos latest toy). Snake Pass gets an easy pass from me.\

In Thimbleweed Park [official site], few things are what they appear to be. The game, which reunites Ron Gilbert with his Maniac Mansion co-designer Gary Winnick, is a point and click comedy-mystery that looks like a relic from the past. Or, more accurately, like memories of the past; it has handsome lighting and a level of visual detail that actually fills in the blanks that memory often papers over., Attractive as it is, should such pixels please your eye, its the quality of the story and the puzzles that really count. On one of those fronts, Thimbleweed eventually finds a way to go above and beyond anything I expected from it, but the combination of broad jokes and mystery-thriller sometimes creates confusion and frustration in both the narrative and the puzzling along the road., , The first hour or two were equal parts a pleasant return to the comfort zone of point and click puzzling, and a sense that things were just a little too comfortable in Thimbleweed Park. The writing, in those early stages, has to do a lot of work, introducing lots of characters (five of them playable, eventually) and fleshing out the backstory of the town. The setting seemed muddled, with references to an all-powerful pillow factory magnate and ever-present vacuum tubes running everything from the crime-solving computers in the sheriffs offices to the telephones and fire hydrants., , A town with a pillow factory as its most magnificent achievement, inspiring awe in the residents, falls dangerously close to precisely the kind of zany humour that makes me cringe. A pillow factory, it seems, is funny because pillows are funny and not the sort of thing that impresses anyone in the real world. And two of the first characters you meet, the sheriff and coroner, share a similar sprite and the same voice actor using a different comedy speech pattern for each. Its oh so wacky., Its easy to forget, as all of these daft characters and situations pile up, that Thimbleweed begins with a corpse. The sinister and mysterious aspects are quickly buried underneath a deluge of daft references and conversations that meander without doing very much to build the world, establish interesting characters or elaborate on the strong opening mystery. It seems to be a murder mystery in which nobody cares about the murder because theyre so intent on performing their comedy routines., , And then there is an actual comedy routine, delivered in flashback by Ransome the Clown. Ive written about Ransome before and Im pleased to report that he continues to be a horrible delight right up until Thimbleweeds final moments, but its his first appearance in that flashback that stabilised the game for me. Partly, its because Ransome is an easy character to understand  a jerk who gets his comeuppance  but its mostly because the flashback is a self-contained setting that allows the story to find its focus., Because Thimbleweed quickly opens up, allowing any character to go to (almost) any location, the story isnt told as efficiently as it could be were the structure more linear. To begin with you have just two characters to control, but theyre interchangeable, with one unifying motive and objective, and their own ulterior motives that remain hidden in the early stages. The three flashbacks, each of which introduces a new playable character, are useful anchors or punctuation, breaking the game into more manageable slices., , Its odd to think of pacing as a problem in a point and click game, but more than anything else thats what I struggled with in the opening hours. My interest was in solving a murder, but the games interest was in explaining exactly what Thimbleweed park is, from the pillow factory to the occult bookstore to the haunted hotel. Its a complex place and not all of the individual parts and people gel together to give a sense of precisely why it is such a strange little ghost town., That all settles down though and even if the bigger questions are left dangling until the final chapters, the town does start to cohere. Its an odd place but its oddities  even the pillow factory and those vacuum tubes  are more than throwaway jokes or convenient and welcome puzzling short-hand (the tubes become a shortcut for many tasks that require a device to be repaired, so you dont need to worry about carrying all manner of tools around)., , There are throwaway jokes everywhere though and even the ones that got a laugh out of me sometimes felt like a distraction from the actual mystery portion of the game. Where the comedy and mystery elements are intertwined, they work fantastically well, and the humour doesnt shy away from the storys darker threads. Curses, death, loss, murder, families torn apart, anxiety, despair  individual lines and scenes are cheery and light-hearted, but the overall tone is rarely frivolous., But Gilbert and his team have other plates to spin: Kickstarter rewards in the form of answering machine messages (and a stacked phonebook of names and numbers corresponding to them) and library books, and more in-jokes and callbacks than comfortably fit within the framework of the story. When youre searching for a clue to advance the case, all of those names, numbers and allusions become an extra layer of noise to navigate. , , Is a number mentioned in a journal actually important or is it a pop culture reference? Is a witty line about the idiosyncracies of point and click adventures actually a hint about the conventions and how to break them, or simplya witty line? It can be hard to cut through the sheer volume of asides and one-liners to find the clues that actually matter. To be clear, this isnt a problem throughout the entire game, but one of the lead characters is an adventure game designer and an important location contains a Comic Con style ThimbleCon; that character and setting occasionally turn the volume up to eleven, though Delores (the game designer) swiftly became my favouite person in Thimbleweed. But, still, I never want to hear another line about the shame of working in the games industry. In my chosen, thats unlikely. , Almost as soon as all of the characters were in play and the whole of Thimbleweed County was open for exploration, I settled into the games groove. Pacing was no longer a problem because I almost always had two or three major puzzles to chip away at, meaning I could turn away from one and to another if I got stuck. Eventually, of course, you hit bottlenecks, having solved all but one puzzle that will advance the story, but despite all of the distractions mentioned above, the world does have a strange but consistent logic. There wasnt a single solution that felt unjustified and the couple of times I resorted to trial and error, the way forward I eventually stumbled across always made sense in retrospect., , And when the characters are allowed to show their personalities and their past rather than acting as vessels for joke-delivery, theyre a fascinating bunch, with excellent voice acting. I particularly like Ray and Reyes, the agents. Ray rolls her eyes and treats Thimbleweeds silliness with utter disdain  a much-needed voice of caustic reason  and Reyes is nervous and naive in a way that immediately made me suspicious. Everyone in Thimbleweed is an unreliable narrator and even though youre controlling these people, you arent actually being them; their secrets remain their own, until they choose to reveal them., I could quibble (am am going to, clearly) about how the player characters dont actually speak to one another, except on are scripted occasions, and cant share information effectively. How Delores can give Reyes an item that helps to resolve his entire storyline but that he is oblivious to it. How I never want to ride an elevator again because the wait between floors feels eternal when youre struggling to figure out a puzzle. How some of the actual rules of being a ghost dont seem entirely consistent. Ive made notes about so many things that made me frown, but they dont add up to more than one big frown, and its countered by the much bigger grin I had for the back half of the game (it took me sixteen hours to finish and I only got properly stuck a couple of times)., , This has been a tricky review to write because some of the things that I love about Thimbleweed will almost certainly be off-putting to other people, and some parts that fell flat might well be your favourite moments. Its a dense game, which means that if one joke fails to land, theres almost certainly a follow-up that just might, hot on its heels. The bigger picture  which Im unwilling to reveal because this begins as a whodunnit but eventually becomes a whatisit  ties everything together, making a tidy package of all the loose threads and awkward gags. , I thoroughly enjoyed most of the journey, despite a few unhappy detours, but the ending brought everything together in a way that didnt just resolve the characters individual stories in a satisfying way, but found the emotional beat at the heart of their investigations. Not in every case, but certainly with three of the five. Though it rushes to its conclusion once the cat is out of the bag and I was a little let-down by the way smaller mysteries are absorbed into the Big Question raised in the final act (though hinted at previously), Thimbleweeds final moments made me sad to say goodbye. Properly sad, with the suggestion of a little sniffle and everything. I suspect that ending will be divisive. Some people will make like Ray and roll their eyes., , By the end, all of my earlier frustrations didnt seem to matter, though its important to remember that they absolutely did at times during the hours I was playing, and if I was disappointed at all it was because Thimbleweed Park doesnt pack more emotional punches into its running time. As the individual stories play out, Ransome and Delores in particular show that Gilbert and his team care for their characters and their disappointments. This is more recognisably the work of writers who showed empathy for Guybrush and Elaine and their dreams than the people who brought us insult swordfighting. , At the beginning of the game, Id hoped to solve a mystery and have a few laughs, but now I miss the company of this little crew. Its a smart game though and a thoughtful one, even if it sometimes hides those qualities behind its clown makeup and a beaglepuss. The final puzzle sequence in particular shows just how long a game Terrible Toybox have been playing with the design. Its a callback that works as more than a joke. At their worst, the many adventure game references feel almost apologetic, as if the game isnt entirely confident in its own skin, but as it moves toward an ending, it embraces its own oddities and past in a way that left me entirely satisfied., , And for all of that that, I can forgive a few too-vague clues and the jokes that fell flat. Its a beautiful game as well, the non-interactive foregrounds adding as much life to the world as the backgrounds. Even the old-school verb system, which I was wary of, doesnt get in the way, with a right click always picking the most sensible options, and others existing for laughs or mild experimentation. Oh, and before I leave you, one piece of advice that might save you some time: as soon as one character has a map, the rest can collect one from an obvious place. Dont do what I did and spend precious time sprint-clicking around the world.

Le Rprobateur is an extremely unusual piece of French multimedia IF. It is a personal favorite of mine so odd, so unlike anything else out there  but for the past few years it has been difficult to recommend to people, because it was not only commercial, but also unreliable about installation. (At least, so reported the friends who tried to play it.) But Le Rprobateurs author Franois Coulon has just re-released it, for free, in a browser-accessible format, and now anyone can get at it. The browser version is a tiny bit less elegant here and there than the original presentation, but what you get in exchange is something that actually functions on a modern computer., The premise is  well, let me give you Coulons own blurb:, Paris, 1984. Gildas is a reprover, a professional hired by his patients to follow them wherever they go and silently condemn their behavior. Called for help by Magali, unable to resist compulsive shopping and French pastries on her own, he starts to fall in love with the young woman, breaking every rule., The story imagines a role somewhere between priest and personal trainer, and asks how this person might intercept some particular characters, in an alternate 1980s France. What happens when a professional sports team hires a Reprover to keep its athletes in training? When a writer needs reproof to get past writers block? To glare at misbehaving lions in the circus?, Meanwhile, there is also a profession of Approvers, whose job is to run around and cheerlead anything you do: a cure for imposter syndrome, anxiety, and generalized forms of cowardice, but not, of course, without its ethical dangers. ,  , I said this was multimedia IF. Each page has several short prose passages, just a sentence or two long, describing some anecdotes from the career of Gildas or one of the other characters he meets along the way. These sentences morph when you click on them, expanding to show additional nuances or takes on what is going on. The effect is reminiscent of Twines text rotation functions, except that Le Rprobateur came out in 2008, before Twine had taken off, and before the creation of most of the macros that provide that functionality. , Even aside from the mechanical effect of having new phrases and adjectives pop in and out of view, the text does not read entirely naturalistically. It is translated from French, and while I am guessing that the original text adopted a humorously formal tone, the results in English are downright alien though often still funny., In addition to the prose, each page offers three illustrations and one video snippet. The illustrations are in a cartoonish or graphic novel style, but despite their size, are crowded with supporting detail, often further explaining what is happening in the text., Then, each video snippet shows Gildas the reprover speaking to camera in French, occupying a role between narrator and character. He speaks slowly and clearly, so that those of us with somewhat less-than-fluent French have plenty of time to match his utterances with the subtitles. He belongs to the school of acting that emotes with its eyebrows. (In this school he is a fellow student of Emma Watson. You can ruin all the Harry Potter movies just by watching for Hermiones eyebrow acrobatics. Youre welcome.) In these videos, he is quite likely to be doing his calisthenics or sipping a green cocktail in the bath, as if you were receiving his candid input in the moment that he had these particular thoughts., And on top of all of these, there is a four-part soundtrack, which you can activate partly or fully, so that youre hearing just a basic track or additional elements on top. Or silence. Whichever you choose., There are twenty pages in total, and you can navigate between them either by clicking on one of the pages three illustrations, or by zooming out to a 3D view, which maps the entire story onto the surface of a D20. You can then rotate the D20 and decide which face to look at next. , , Either way, the structure encourages you to think about the thematic links between the story on one page and the story on the next. , This may all sound both stilted and needlessly complex. In practice, its pretty easy to get the hang of after a few pages. As for the style, that never becomes less strange, but it does grow on you: or at least, it grew on me, as an expression of a subversive humor that never takes itself seriously, always attentive to the foibles of the main characters. It is also, at least from the perspective of other IF, almost entirely sui generis: part social satire, part literary short story, beholden to none of the usual IF or hypertext tropes and conceits, and not even apparently aware of their existence. This made it refreshing in 2008, and it still feels so now., What emerges from both the story and the mechanic is an idea of nearly infinite layering and differences of perspective. Le Rprobateur is constantly showing you its characters different views on what is going on. You, the reader, are constantly revisiting and morphing the prose and the music, or choosing to juxtapose this pair of pages. , Within the fiction, the existence of Approvers and Reprovers suggests that absolutely any act could, with the right framing and in the hands of the proper professional, be considered laudable or the reverse. Moreover (the story suggests), our ability to show discipline or self-restraint is very socially dependent, conditioned on the feedback that were receiving at the time., , Considering all this, its probably appropriate that the player has no diegetic agency at all. You cant change the story. All the texts, images, and videos are written in advance and may be experienced in any order. But your personal exploration of the space is a unique journey. The story begins on a different page whenever you restart it, as though rolling the giant D20 on which the pages are inscribed., If you do like this piece, Coulon has also created a series called Prise Multiple, a set of video compositions offering multiple views on the same scenarios., I should add a word of warning: there are characters in the story, if not the author himself, who express some racist perspectives. I had forgotten that fact until replaying; it was an unpleasant jolt to the system, even when couched in the perspective of a man otherwise represented as rather hidebound in several respects.

Every week we dump Brendan out the back of a plane and into the hotbed of gunfire that veterans know only as early access. This week, the competitive murderfields of PlayerUnknowns Battlegrounds [official site]., Im halfway across the river when the net starts closing in. A huge electric field looms up behind me, sparkling and fizzing and nipping at my heels as I swim for my life. Having just dodged a player driving by in his jeep, I was now going to die of wounds slowly inflicted over time by the game itself, simply for not being in the right place. I kicked and swam, even as the electric field overtook me and my screen started to slowly bleed. If I didnt reach the safe zone soon  marked by a white circle on the mini-map, Id be dead. Oh well, I figured, there are less interesting ways to go.
, This is PlayerUnknowns Battlegrounds, the new Battle Royale game from Bluehole and Brendan Greene, the developer behind Armas battle royale and H1Z1s King of the Hill. But if youre hoping for something a little fresh from one of the formats experienced progenitors, turn now and walk sadly away. Theres absolutely nothing here of novelty. Its just another shooter on a big map., , As such, there isnt much to explain. After a gathering screen, you are thrust onto a plane with 99 other players, where youll skydive out onto the 8km x 8km island below. Depending on what youve picked on the menu screen, youre all either fighting solo or murdering it out in groups of two or four. Seeing where people drop and picking your own safe and uncrowded landing spot is the first major challenge. Actually, strike that. The first major challenge is making it through the airplane ride., , The trademark title of the game puts everything in capitals  PLAYERUNKNOWNS BATTLEGROUNDS  as if the game itself is shouting at you, a fitting moniker for a game in which all players spend the first 30-60 seconds in the plane screaming at each other like a bus full of children on their way to a borstal. Theres bad singing, racial slurs, meaningless squealing. It is like some chemistry genius filtered and distilled all the toxicity from online gaming into a single aluminium cylinder. You can mute the whole place as soon as you appear, and I suggest that you do., , Once youre out and soaring through the air, the desire is to find a place with equipment and supplies. Guns, in other words. There are first aid kits and grenades of differing types, as well as clothes and the obligatory motorcycle helmets, but what you really want is a good old-fashioned AK, or an M16. The rush for these weapons isnt as frantic as in H1Z1, I found. If you drop into a peaceful area with no other contestants youll easily survive long enough to find a good firearm, and possibly even a scope, special magazine, or some other kind of attachment. Backpacks and helmets have different levels, clearly stated when you stand by them, allowing you to hold more or withstand more damage if you get shot in the bonce, something thatd otherwise straight-up kill you., , Within minutes, the game starts warning you to move. A circle on your map denotes the next safe zone (and a red area denotes a place about to be bombed by planes). In this case, safe zone means somewhere you can exist where the game wont zap you for standing around, as opposed to an actual place of safety. Like its older brothers, Battlegrounds wastes no energy or thought by leaving it up to you whether to team up or kill people you meet. The aim is always to kill. This isnt DayZ or the Divisions dark zone, where there are advantages and disadvantages to attacking another player. This is vanilla, kill-em-all elimination. This has always been a sad thing for the genre, Ive found, since it makes no new demands of the players and introduces nothing to the game of survival that we have not seen before. Battle royales done in this way will always tend towards, or simply be, a deathmatch without the benefit of concise level design., , But theres plenty of people who are up for that, clearly. The loud swarms of players in Battlegrounds must be at least partly composed of those fed up with H1Z1. But what they expect to find here of note, Im not sure. Maybe the appeal is that this is more or less the same thing, but with a new map? Maybe everyone just thinks that this time  this time  the game will actually be finished. I dont know. I joined up expecting something a little fresher or different. I should have expected the games narrow-mindedness the moment it wouldnt accept my nickname., , There are times of tension and excitement, like in any hunger game. The reason I was swimming for my life, for example, was because a flashed warning informed me that in 30 seconds the noose would tighten. But there was a bay to cross. The only way over was a steel bridge some 500 meters or so away, and just reaching that bridge would actually take me back towards the edge of the now-closing circle of death. I had to make a choice  run for the bridge and pray, or jump in the water and swim., , As it turned out, you swim verrrryy sloooowllyyyy. But it was still enough of a head start. I made it to the next safe zone, hurt but alive, and just in time to see the next warning flash up and start running for my life all over again. There were 18 people left alive at this point, and I hadnt even been in a shootout with anyone yet., That would change within a few minutes, as the sound of an unseen car came from a nearby compound. The engine stopped and I saw the vehicle (empty, quiet) before I saw the driver (crouching, shooting). I was peppered with bullets and became the 13th-last person to die., , In squads I died much more quickly, a result of the over-confidence of groups and speed at which a gang of four can hoover up all the goodies in a house and move onto the next. Theres tension there too; you might be gathering up some new boots, just for kicks, when suddenly a shot rings out. This is something the game does well  the sound of distant gunfire. But how distant? A second flurry of shots ring out, this time closer. Everyone gets ready, looking at the horizon to the south. But then, out of the west, a jeeps zooms in and empties four angry men behind the cover of an old warehouse. Whoever it was that was shooting to the south will now hear, in the distance, the shots that spell your own death., , But even these life-by-life climaxes cant really change what this is: another battle royale game with nothing original to say. Given the chance to inject some life into a genre that is fast losing all its novelty, Bluehole and PlayerUnknown have seemingly decided to shrug and just do more of the same. For many, thats enough. But Im looking for a more interesting way to die.

Its time to walk the streets (well, street) of mid-80s New York as a down-on-his-luck patrol officer, handing out parking tickets, and er, handing out some more parking tickets. But! But handing out parking tickets while people all around you shout racist and sexist stuff, because its set in the 80s! Its Beat Cop [official site]. Something something Senator, something something diamonds, something something parking tickets. Heres wot I think., At first glance Beat Cop looks like something akin to the Sierra Police Quest games of the late 80s/early 90s, a combination of point-and-click adventure and fiddly paperwork procedural. Ooh, intriguing. But just a few minutes in it becomes apparent this is far closer to a Diner Dash-like frantic management games, with swearing. Just, not a particular good version of the format., , Right, so, a premise. You play Officer Jack Kelly, a former detective whos been bumped down to a beat cop after some vaguely explained incident with a Senator, a murder, and some stolen diamonds. Your bosses know youre being framed for the death, but everyone seems to think you stole the jewels. Youre back on the bottom rung, in a squad with four other dodgy police officers, and have to patrol a single pixelated street every day until you can prove your innocence. Each morning your squads grumpy boss comments on how you did the day before, and gives you a list of tasks to complete. It might be making sure you meet a quota of ten parking tickets, while visiting a particular store to speak to the owner, and making sure youre at a certain locations at certain times to make arrests, perform searches, that sort of lark., But time goes awfully quickly in Beat Cop. About five minutes every couple of seconds. The idea being that you have to economise your choices and actions in any single day, choose which tasks to complete, which to let fall aside. It emphasises this to you again and again in the early sections, your fellow officers repeatedly telling you that completing all tasks just cant be done. Except theres a rather big flaw here: its generally perfectly possible to easily get everything done, and sometimes more besides. The game throws distractions at you, pitching you between the two rival gangs, the Italian Mafia, and the black street gangs known as The Crew. Each will ask you to help them out, or cause problems for the other, and you can choose whether to do so, your reputation with either affected by your decisions. And theres time for this too. There are also random thefts, minor incidents with shopkeepers, and scripted events in various apartments. Yup, them too. The game gives you a bonus if youre able to double your ticket quota, but as I discovered thanks to just how poorly the whole time management has been, well, managed, doesnt give you anything extra for quadrupling it., , Generally, Ive only failed at tasks not because there isnt time in the day, but because your characters movement is so idiotically slow and time is so weirdly handled that its simply not possible to walk the hundred or so metres you need to cross in less than the time given by a pop-up alert. Other times its because the game is simply wrong  youre repeatedly told to catch the guy in the green jumper, when the perp is in fact wearing a white vest. So later when I was told to arrest a guy in a purple dressing gown, and picked up a guy in a pink dressing gown in the right place at the right time, I assumed it was another flaw. Not that time, so that was a task failed., Theres also a very idiosyncratic understanding of choice. Minor decisions are yours to make, whether to take a bribe, buy drugs from a dealer, or accept the advances of a prostitute, but when it comes to  say  how to respond to an abusive uncle mistreating his niece, theres no dialogue option to arrest him or otherwise. Instead Kelly just kicks the shit out of him and reports to dispatch that he fell down the stairs. Kellys scripted response to most crime is excessive force and illegal cover-ups, making a real farce of what it is you actually get to do with most of your time playing the game: checking car tyres for low tread, or issuing tickets for expired meters., , Oh, and its revolting. Its worth noting that the games fundamental design flaws ensure its not particularly enjoyable to play, before any content issues come up. But they come up, all the time., Beat Cop is a game that very much wants to have its cake and eat it. Set in 1986, it steeps itself in the very worst imaginings of police corruption amidst rampant prejudice, but in a way that after a little while starts to feel a lot less like referencing, and a lot more like revelling. It indulges itself in swathes of ugly racism, sexism and corruption, but without seeming to understand the reality of the mid-80s era, nor having the guts to embrace it fully. For instance, black people are incessantly referred to by the game as darkies, so much that it feels really peculiar, but it then appears too cowardly to ever have anyone derogatorily use the word nigger. (One black character does say nigga at one point.), Chinese are slanty and yellow, gay people are faggy. What a treat. Italians are similarly slighted, but again it chickens out before it gets to the slurs that would actually have been said. We get all manner of lazy pasta-based references, plus a bit of greaseball, but never wop. The writing indulges in gleeful abuse, but its too scared to go to some places., Not so scared when it comes to talking about women, though! The morning meetings with your squad are a gala of sexually abusive language aimed at the one female officer. Lovely descriptions of a colleagues sensitive dick, who theyve fucked, and offers to have sex with her. And gosh, you dont see the word cunt in games very often, but youll see it very often in this game., , Now, all of that is fine! If youre depicting racism and sexism, you cant do it without using racist and sexist terms. But the question here becomes: why? Why is it being depicted? So far as Ive been able to discern, the most realistic reason here is because it was thought fun to do so., Theres this curious belief that if one sets ones game in a particular era, theres carte blanche to portray the negative stereotypes of the time, but never the negative effects of them. So the thinking starts, People could get away with offering to fuck their female colleagues in the 80s, and they didnt get in trouble at work! but never manages to reach, and that was really, really shit for women., That certain voices were silenced at that time isnt a very good reason to gleefully silence them when portraying it now. Its as if some people believe that the consequences of abusive language were only introduced at the time when it became socially unacceptable to voice it. So when you depict the past, hey, people didnt mind! Women and people of colour knew their place back then, before they were promoted to their new place these days, right?, (Lets be clear: Im not attributing these thoughts to the developers. Just commenting on how such a portrayal comes across to me as I play.), , Some will take issue that Ive given as much space to that topic as to the games design flaws, but its instructive to how such content dominates the game. That sums up Beat Cop, really: a game in which what you actually do is tediously trudge back and forth across the same street over and over and over, primarily handing out parking tickets, but set in a pigsty of corruption and prejudice. Good grief, the game would be FAR better if you were actually taking part in the latter! At least it wouldnt be Diner Dash meets Meter Maid Simulator! , It drags on for such a long time, repetitive day after day, some made slightly different by having a twist  you have to look after a Russian cop (who accidentally kills a man by wanking him too hard), you have to keep the street clear of all parked cars that day, you have to check for busted car lights. The stuff about the Senator, the framing, the missing diamonds  that all happens to you in conversations in which you play no part, agonisingly infrequently throughout., , The farther you get in, the more it starts to crumble. Tasks are given to you after their deadline time has already passed. Youre penalised half your pay cheque for tasks given when the day is almost over, like not catching a tagger who isnt where the radio report says he is, and then cant be caught up with before that days time elapses. In fact, coincidentally being at the location of an event as youre radioed about it seems to break everything, at one point causing me to have a game over because I couldnt stop a man from setting himself on fire, because the game didnt trigger the scripts. (Yay, I got to dish out fifteen sodding parking tickets all over again for that day!), Ive played it for so damned long, and have just run out of patience with it, and absolutely do not care any more about the arc story. Its taken so long to go anywhere, crawling along every few days of play, and just isnt compelling at all. When the reality of playing is failing yet another challenge because the games car searching mini-game is broken from start to finish, rather than getting involved in the intrigue of its police corruption tale, theres no motivation to stick around. I got shot at, entirely randomly, while looking at my screen-covering notepad, and honestly Im happy that I died. Thats a good enough ending for me.

A trickle of wholesome GIFs has been tantalising us with post-apocalyptic platformer Rain World [official site] and its adorable protagonist the slugcat for some time now. Its out tomorrow and I have been hopping and swimming and munching my way through its dripping, humid world of predator and prey over the past week to tell you wot I think. First: I am certain its going to become a cult hit with a crowd of hardcore, mystery-loving obsessives behind it. But secondly, it has also left me with the impression of a badly missed opportunity. Equal parts astounding and hands-tearing-out-your-hair frustrating, this adventure, like the slugcat itself, is a bit of a mix., The story is all it needs to be  you are a slugcat who has been separated from your family. Off you go into this unsettling world of narrow drain pipes and soggy piles of garbage to find them. You need to eat to survive and avoid being eaten by the various hissing lizards and fearsome critters that prowl from screen to screen looking to fill their own stomachs., , The blue fruits hanging from vines and bats that flutter about are your first introduction to the dining rituals of the slugcat, but there are many more types of food. Theres no constantly-depleting survivalist meter as such, just a line of seven pips that fill with each morsel (the pips arent health or stamina but they do empty in another way, which Ill talk about later). Like much of the game, Id rather avoid talking too much about those later foodstuffs, because discovering exactly what they are and how to eat them is part of the games sense of animalistic curiousity, one of its greatest strengths. And you will have to discover most of these for yourself, because this is a game that, notwithstanding the first few screens, absolutely loathes explaining itself., That makes talking about its virtues much harder for me. Im avoiding screenshots of many animals because its best in its surprising moments. When you suddenly spot a new type of beast appearing out of a hole in the ground and run to the other side of the screen in a panic. Or when you finally understand what those little blue seedlings are for. Or when a creature you thought was dangerous, actually turns out to be more or less harmless so long as you leave it alone. If theres a puzzle element to the game (and itd be a stretch to say that there is) its in figuring out how the whole food chain fits together and what your place is in it. Who eats who? What are these fruits good for? What do I do with this pearl?, , In its revelatory moments, or in moments of sheer drama (avoiding camouflaged beasts in a tunnel system, catching a glimpse of a black tail in a tank of deep water) Rain World really does shine. The world is a huuuuuuge collection of screens and environments, each with particular threats and obstacles. Each area is woven together by bolt holes, and you can see a multi-layered map of everything youve uncovered by holding down a shoulder button., Theres some direction in the form of small eye-creatures that appear like weeds out of crevices in the rock or rusted metal. They will point you towards bats or fruits, and sometimes flash an image of a slugcat by a bolt hole (suggesting that they might know which way your family has gone) or some other mysterious image. However, their directions become less and less frequent as you go on, I found. Regardless of their directions, the desire to explore every region as fully as possible will infect you. Overcoming pitfalls and puzzling at dead ends is all part of being a lost animal in this weird place. But obviously, there is a bigger threat than lizards and unknown beasts: the rain., , This comes periodically. I never timed it, but it felt like maybe every fifteen minutes or so. After a while, you get a sense for when rainfall is near. A little meter in the bottom left is telling you this, a cricle of dots ticking down to zero (not that the game offers you this information). But you also know when rain is about to fall because the sky starts to darken and the land shakes, slowly at first, then faster. It rains in a brief shower, nothing you cant handle. But then this stops and everything goes still. Then: tink! A single sharp drop of what I can only describe as super rain. Tink tink! Two drops. TINK TINK TINK TINK TINK. Suddenly, the screen is lost in sledgehammer water. If youre caught in the rain, you are dead., To survive each shower, you need to find special hibernation chambers, marked with a boxy symbol. To hibernate, you need to have eaten enough food  at least four pips worth. The hibernation process will always use up four pips of food, which means each new morning you are hungry again. Critically, these chambers are also your save points. And this is where it all starts to unravel for me. Because Rain World is cursed with some of the most teeth-grindingly bad checkpointing in any modern-day platformer., , The hibernation chambers are often very far apart. In theory this fits with the survivalist theme. Living winter to winter while hiding and running from vicious predators of the natural world isnt easy. Just ask any rabbit. But in reality this means you will often be repeating the same bunch of screens numerous times only to die from a frightening creature that ambushes you out of nowhere. Thats because the other creatures are spread out at the AIs will. Sometimes, there are none to be seen. Sometimes three predators will appear at once, blocking your way to the next area or surrounding you from multiple avenues. Sometimes you take a bolt hole into the next screen and straight into the jaws of a waiting lizard., Other times you get caught in a game of Darwinian Pacman, trapped in narrow passages between two types of beast, both vying for your blood, with no way past either of them. It is all completely random and unavoidable. The best solution to getting past predators is often to accept death and try again  because next time they might not be in the same place. While all this replicates the brutish, nasty and short nature of the wilder-apocalypse, it makes for a frustrating platformer. Early on, the repetition of screens and areas is more forgiveable. But later you will navigate twenty or so screens only to die from some accident of fate. When you respawn, none of the map you have uncovered has been saved. This might have been Rain Worlds most serious crime, if you didnt count the controls., , These are a baffling frustration. Sometimes youll land from a height and roll without meaning to, sometimes youll press down to duck into a hole and end up rolling around on the ground like a vulnerable white meatball. Very often, you will enter tunnels backwards, travelling much slower than normal (theres a way to turn around, but it too is slow). Sometimes youll wiggle left or right while on a pole, trying to prepare for a jump and the game will think you want to unhook from the pole, resulting in a lethal fall. Sometimes youll be legging it from a deadly creature and suddenly stick to a pole because of the way your thumbstick is angled. I cant count the deaths I have suffered because of an annoying control issue, whether it was rolling off a tower or ducking into the wrong crevice and missing my chance to escape into a proper bolt hole., These crevices are particularly frustrating. They are everywhere, carved into walls and the ground. Other creatures can appear from them, which is fine, because this makes it feel like your predators have their own separate system of bolt holes. But to you, they are totally useless, and worse, they get in the way. They are stubby dead ends not deep enough to hide in, yet the slugcat will start to clamber in if you are pushing the stick vaguely towards one. This would not be such a big problem, except that real bolt holes are almost always surrounded by these false nooks. Put this together with awkward, sticky controls and you will often be putting your cats head down the wrong hole. In split-second pursuits, this means the difference between life and death. Back to the last hibernation pod for you, kitten., , Thats just one example of the way the tar-like controls taint the sense of adventure. The process of holding and throwing objects is also weirdly inconsistent. I just wrote and subsequently deleted an entire paragraph in which I tried to explain the system of picking things up, swallowing them, regurgitating, putting them down, throwing, and swapping items between paws. I deleted it because the description was so riddled with minor details and exceptions that the paragraph read like a bizarre legal document., The left paw will be the thrower, insofar as there is no spear in the right paw, until such time that there is another more lethal object in the counterpaw, in which instance the thrown object will defer to the judgement of the games instructions, or to the nature of the object in the right paw., , Its a mess. Carrying a useful object ten screens to use it in a particular place, and then accidentally throwing it away just as you approach your goal, is a regular occurrence. All these problems are especially surprising because the game markets itself as having a hero with nimble movements and natural fluidity. But I cannot think of a less befitting description for this troublesome animal. Its a shame. For a platformer bad controls can be fatal. I dont think they outright kill Rain Worlds charisma and charm, but theyve definitely maimed it., In many ways, Rain World isnt trying to be a platformer  it is more in love with mystery and discovery and it pays equal homage to the Metroidvanias of the world. But in all the important mechanical ways, it remains tied to that ancestral genre of leaping from ledge to ledge. You need to run and jump and climb and swim and throw things, often at speed in order to escape some otherworldly nasty running behind you with its toothy maw ajar., , Yet the controls feel stubbornly designed. Sticky, surly, often uncooperative. There are so many things that would make them feel better (a higher jump, less weight, a more sensible way to throw, drop and swap items) and yet those considerations seemed to have been ignored in favour of a method of movement that, yes, looks sublime yet often handles horribly., People will look at the toughness and the deaths and cite Limbo as a comparison. But for me, it is much more reminiscent of Abes various Oddysees and Exodduses (Exoddi?) The world is gorgeous, the characters are likeable, and the enemies especially are scary and fascinating in equal measure, and are often pitted against one another in clever ways that make the landscape feel bustling with life., , But Abe too had an aggravating control scheme (although his required pinpoint precision and meticulous timing, whereas the slugcat just feels sticky). Abe too forced you to run onto new screens in a panic without knowing that there would be a pitfall or a trap waiting for you. Abe too sought pleasure in being masochistic. A carnivourous plant disguised as a pole is simply Rain Worlds version of an unlabelled lever that, when pulled, crushes you beneath a giant rack of ribs. In so many ways it echoes the strengths of that lovable green farter but it also retains all the flaws, and in fact introduces whole new ones  at least Abe gave you a quicksave., Modern platformers that want to be difficult have learned the value of a quick and nearby spawn. Fell into some spikes? Never mind, says the game, and one second later you are at the last brick wall you leapt from. The slugcat doesnt get this treatment, instead it is transported back to the nearest save point, the last hibernation chamber. The things you have done to the environment have been undone, the parts of the map you revealed have been recovered in shroud. You are ten screens back from where you were, only now the predators and prey will be in different places., , It can get hugely frustrating, especially in those parts of the world where you have to navigate bothersome pools of leeches, or wall-jump up long shafts, or seek out a certain object before facing an otherwise impossible obstacle. Having to repeat these areas doesnt feel like an exercise in hardcore gaming, it just feels like a chore. Some of the areas feel like youd need the developers debug tools just to get through. Its demoralising. You want to explore the next area, encounter the next weird tentacled species. But the game does everything it can to stop you from doing this. It is astounding that, after navigating twenty or thirty screens, you will die because a random enemy has spawned off the edge of the screen, impossible to see, and snapped you up with its tongue., The oddest thing about it is that, like the controls, this difficulty feels entirely deliberate. It is like Rain World wants to have the strength of difficulty we find in Dark Souls. But that classic of dying and re-dying had the impetus of soul currency, a sense of gambling, a sense of pace, and the relief of clever shortcuts with near-perfect geography. Not to mention the HUGELY SIGNIFICANT gesture of always putting the enemies reliably in the same place, like a solid, immovable set of spiky hurdles. You always had the means to overcome and defeat them. You just needed to learn., , Here there is only the obstacle of repeating the same awkward platforming sections over and over again, sometimes being put out of your misery by a creature that gobbles you up out of the blue or makes your intended route suddenly impassable. It takes everything platformers have learned not to do over the last 10 years and throws each lesson over its shoulder into the waste basket. It definitely gains some originality thanks to this exercise, but it is often at the expense of basic playability., Im wailing on it quite a lot here, which may seem unfair. But its only because so much potential has been lost. Theres a ton of things to fall in love with. The world is vast and wonderfully drawn. The process of discovery is wonderful, and it puts an encouraging amount of trust in the player to figure things out by themselves. As for the natural world it conveys, it can feel like living through a surreal season of BBCs Planet Earth, set thousands of years after mankinds demise. I have had run-ins with animals that have made me shiver, squeal or grin from ear to ear. A particular creature was so instinctively frightening that I had to take a short break to regain my courage before taking the slugcat on a long swim across some open water. He did not survive., , And theres depth here too. Creatures and mysterious personas are hidden at the extremities of the map, offering some small aid or boost, although you might not know how or why they do so until much later. Theres a method of travelling vast distances and it takes some experimentation to figure this system out. You might put something in your gullet and forget all about it, only for it to become suddenly very helpful two regions later, where you can vomit it up and put it to use. And these are just the details I figured out. Theres much more that Id love to discuss with another player  what do those little [REDACTED] do? Did you visit the [REDACTED] with all those terrifying [REDACTED]? And  oh my god  what exactly are the consequences of eating the [REDACTED] by that [REDACTED]?, Im at a disadvantage with the review copy, see, since I dont have the sanctuary of discussion threads or friends whove already clocked it to relieve my most pressing confusions, unlike yall. Its a game that I think will benefit from that out-sourcing of help, the many hands and many eyes of the internet making up for the lack of in-game teachings (although, being honest, it feels like it could have benefited from more voices in the testing phase too  maybe one of them would have said: Uh, dont you think the controls are a bit wonky? or Maybe we should, like, lay off)., , So I dont want to rubbish the experience too much. Apart from the mysteries and secrets, there is a cracking array of vicious wildlife on show here, and their accompanying methods of predation can be as impressive as they are unsettling. It often feels like a real, brutish ecosystem. Even if the AI sometimes acts weirdly, spasming in a corner, or twirling around in endless circles, it still seems earthly, red in tooth and claw, but also alien and unknown. Finding out exactly how that aquatic animal feeds or which sub-species of lizard acts in which manner is a joy. I just wish I could do that without having to repeat the same swim through cramped and flooded tunnels for the fifth time. Or the same protracted run across the ultra-dark [REDACTED], with, yes, a shelter at the end but also a perilous drop that undoes everything you just did., I feel like time and the fans will absolve it even of its awkward controls and terrible checkpointing. But in the same way that Dark Souls drop-outs often lament that they cannot explore Lordran in some sort of easy mode, I wish that Rain World was not so obtuse and punishing. Unlike Dark Souls, theres no real reason behind the difficulty, no sense of purposeful design. And often there is evidence of some terrible design. Why are there poles drawn in the background, in almost exact same hue as the foregrounds usable poles? Why does the transition point from one screen to another sometimes land in critical areas  during a dangerous jump or (in one case) a winding vertical climb infested by invisible lizards, who snap you up from unseen positions far above the edge of your view. How it expects you to see the creatures before you are even on the next screen, I dont know. Attention game makers: there is a difference between in being hands off and being straight-up neglectful., , Mostly, the feeling I have come away with is frustration. The philosophy here isnt we refuse to hold your hand. Its more like: we are going to cover your hands with lubricant and task you with climbing a firemans pole. The game doesnt seem to realise that its strength isnt in difficulty, or repeating areas again and again, but in discovery and wandering, in exploration and a sense of wonder., At 20 hours, having discovered just 8 of the regions, I threw the gamepad aside with a mixture of exasperation and disappointment. There are those who will relish the challenge but I never found the slugcats family, and not just because there were no clues or direction as to their whereabouts. There was a big part of me that didnt want to stop playing and maybe Ill pick it up again some day, because there is so much to love about discovering the laws of nature behind this huge, ruined ecosystem. But with each random death, each accidental roll off a cliffside, each checkpoint drought, that love turned to ash. There is so much beauty and intrigue and diversity of life in Rain World. Its a pity the game doesnt want you to see any of it.

Future Unfolding [official site] is a game about discovery and delight. Its a dreamlike world which encourages you to play with the environment as you feel out how to make progress through the foresty wilderness. At its best it lets you learn how to progress without feeling like youre being taught or led. But I also noted times when that feeling of exploration and play fell away and I ended up hugging the walls of an area, combing the trees for a missed pathway or point of interaction. So I cannot give an unequivocal recommendation, but as the game benefits so much from players going in knowing as little as possible Im hoping this introduction gives you a sense of whether you might enjoy it. , The full WIT is after the jump, Still here? Then onward into the nitty gritty!, Future Unfolding is a top-down game where you gradually explore a forest world. At first youre wandering basic terrain, discovering that you can interact with objects by pressing the spacebar or by walking or running. Thus youll start to note the low-pitched blooping which means your character is running through pebbles, or the strange bubbling when you activate a bush that teleports you to a different area. I found myself playing a lot in this part of the game  not playing in the general sense of just moving through the game, but playing in that delighted way where you interact with things just to see what happens, or to revel in the sensation of performing the action., , After a while the novelty fades and I wondered what else there is to do in the world. Is this it?, And then I reached a slope and found myself in amongst the trees which were previously confined to an area I could see but had assumed was just for decoration around the borders of the pathways! And you can hold down the button to run and shove your way THROUGH the treeline instead of it being secretly a wall. And THEN your shoving and rustling dislodges a flock of BIRDS! , Future Unfolding is very much about feeding you these moments and expanding the scope of your interactions gradually. Theres a broader narrative at play which guides your exploration to a certain degree  youre wobbling and wimbling your way across these half-curated, half-procedurally generated lands to get to other areas and activate new spikey cloud orb things and stand on dream wolves so that they dispense a kind of vague spiritual wisdom/vague spiritual questioning. , , Thats the part of the game I was less engaged by. It doesnt disrupt the flow of the experience, it just reorients it a bit so your wilderness exploration seems intended more as a kind of vision quest. Thats supported by a kind of heightened consciousness aesthetic  maybe playing a little with synaesthesia  present since the start of the game. You leave behind a colourful trail as you run, for example and the way sound effects seem heightened or expanded is easily illustrated with the blooping rocks. , Thats interesting, but the text snippets dispensed by some of the creatures you encounter tipped into meaningless philosophy-adjacent wiffle for me and I started skim-reading them or making my character run around while they were playing out. Taken as a whole body of text, they delineate a kind of folk tale or mythos for the world and its inhabitants but the less specific it got, the more the dreamlike vagueness felt like ambiguity without depth. , Heres a video to show a stretch of gameplay  as I say, spoilers because the game is about discovering this stuff, but its also blooming difficult to convey any of the atmosphere without movement or sound!, , I think the game works better when youre interacting and discovering through play rather than through language. The moment I realised what the presence of trees might mean (I dont want to get too specific, but there is a moment where the presence of a lot of trees takes on a lot of potential significance) is done with a really deft touch. The exact meaning, if there is one, is left ambiguous and that works far, far better than the information offered up by the animals. They werent bad, exactly, because there were touches of storytelling which were really pleasant or which helped build the sense of the world but there were a few bum notes. , Another slight disruption to the flow is that playing on a keyboard means its easy to travel up, down, left and right or diagonally, but the way the narrow paths wind means youre often getting caught on the walls. Its not a major disruption or anything, but it means the controller option is infinitely preferable just because of the smoothness it would hopefully facilitate. That said, I couldnt get the game to recognise my 3rd party Xbox controller so Im not sure that it definitely does change the movement that way. , , A last criticism became more striking the further through the game I got. The areas which mark each level or world or zone or whatever you want to call them are surprisingly large. Thats a lovely thing the first time you realise it, but at some points I just couldnt see the way ahead. At that point the game swings from being about exploration and discovery to open up new paths and more about skirting the edges of every area checking for things I have missed in terms of exits or interactive objects. , Sometimes the problem was that Id not found the solution to a puzzle, sometimes it was just that I hadnt combed the map thoroughly enough. Both are problematic in their own way. , When my progress was hampered by a puzzle I hadnt seen the solution to, that felt oddly unpleasant. I mean, I like puzzles. I play very frustrating puzzle games and enjoy that frustration. Here it doesnt work the same way for me because the game sort of lulls you into a playful space where you tinker and potter and run and then occasionally you bash into an obstacle and have to figure it out with a different bit of your brain. , , Its like wandering home after a pub trip on a summer evening and the world is fuzzy and lovely and OOH A FROG! and then suddenly the frog needs you to snap out of that fuzziness and solve a puzzle otherwise it wont let you go home., Sometimes the thing gating your progress is clear and you need to snap into that different mode of thinking, but sometimes it isnt. Did you not realise a puzzle was a puzzle or did you just explore a previous segment in such a way that you managed to avoid finding a vital cave or bush or exit?, Thats where the retracing of the steps begins. I got into the habit of exploring an area by skirting the edges of the forest, hugging the rock walls to make sure I hadnt missed anything there and then exploring within. Its a very different thing to the earlier mindset of running about and converts the experience from something freeform to something more mired in functionality or completionism. That feels wrong here. , It didnt ruin the game or anything, but it did mean that by the end I felt like Id stopped discovering and started trawling which, in turn, dulled my emotional investment., , Im not sure how to sum this up for a review, truth be told. I have notes written from early on when I was brimming over with excitement and wonder and Im pulling them together having lost that sense of connection with the game in its later stages. I think I would have felt differently if Id played as a non-reviewer and walked away when I felt that interest wane instead of ploughing onward. The 14.99 price tag makes it harder to say just take a punt on it but I want to make sure I stress just how lovely and uplifting the discovery section was. I also want to highlight that the semi-proc gen element of the games level construction might mean you get a different result in terms of knowing how to move forward., I think the best I can offer is that if you like the kinds of games I like (and you can get a sense of that through my author tag) I think you will like and value this.

Kna [official site] feels like a game that admirably comes in the wake of Campo Santos wilderness wonder Firewatch. But its worth noting the Kickstarter for the game launched years before Firewatch released. Still, I suspect lessons have been learned and added in the last year, and theyre very welcome, as this proves to be a fascinating game., Rob Zacny took a look at the Kickstarted project last year during its early access, but much has changed since and now its out for real. Im really pleased to report its well worth a look. And, as I always seem to be saying as I launch into these reviews, if you want the experience as I had it  going in completely blind, knowing nothing other than it was a scripted adventure using the techniques of survival games  then take my word for it that its a top-notch experience with a slightly damp ending. Otherwise, Ill give away a little bit more context below because to not do so would make it impossible to talk about in any depth., , Set in late 1970, a private detective called Carl Faubert is called to a small Northern Canadian village in the middle of the wilderness by a local businessman. The case seems odd  one W. Hamilton has requested that he investigate a case of vandalism, which is hardly his usual territory. On arrival, Faubert is involved in a car accident, and after coming around at his wheel discovers the other driver has run from the scene, and heavy snow has fallen along with terrible cold. Too cold to be out and about when injured post accident, certainly. And so kick in your survival game instincts: look for equipment, figure out some first aid, and get your car working again., Thats the first sign that somethings different here. Pretty much none of the eternally early access survival sims give your character a working automobile. Faubert, armed with a road and trail map of the area, is going to need it however, if hes got any chance of trying to find help, shelter and warmth., , From this point on youre afforded a really impressive amount of freedom for a game thats so tightly scripted in terms of where its heading. Progress beyond where it wants you to reach is blocked off, but in a satisfying, narratively justified way, and in my experience the choices I made seemed to rather perfectly match the ideal order in which to encounter everything. Perhaps I got lucky, or perhaps the game used subtle and not-so-subtle direction to push me into picking the right fork in the road  its obviously hard to tell. Either way, it worked splendidly, and I was very gladly funneled down its pathways., So much looks like it plays like, say, The Long Dark, with buildings to find and enter, explore, loot, and shelter inside. Getting a fire lit is absolutely essential if youre going to keep Faubert alive, and hes going to need tools, a hammer, a crowbar, and most importantly, light. However, hes not going to need food and drink, and there youll see the biggest step away from the traditions of the genre its more aping than following. Because this takes place over a single day and night, and because normal humans outside of video games dont need to eat a seven course meal every 45 minutes, youre just fine when it comes to sustenance., , Quickly the story escalates into a murder mystery (because lets face it, a vandalism investigation might not have been the most riveting story  It was him. Okay.), then theres the matter of these strange glowing ice formations that appear on the ground. And why are the local wolves acting so strangely?, Something odd is happening in this small town, and that rather pleasingly affords you the ability to root through peoples houses, go through all their drawers, and read all their private correspondence. Who doesnt enjoy that? And as you go, Faubert keeps detailed notes in his notebooks, collating the gathered information and helping you put it in order despite discovering it in your own pattern., This is aided further by the completely sumptuous narration by Forrest Rainier, his mellifluous delivery adding a depth of charm to the story. The only downside of this is a tendency for this commentary to over-explain, especially toward the games weaker ending where it culminates in a clumsy exposition dump. (The sort that feels like it should have been more game, but perhaps ran out of time or money or energy. Its probably relevant that the game was Kickstarted as episodic, but has eventually become a single release.) There are also a few translation issues from the games original French, especially with the on-screen text occasionally making little sense. Not a big deal overall, but definitely shows why you should always have a first-language speaker do your proofing whichever language youre translating to., , The game is packed with lovely details, a favourite being the way some descriptive text is written onto the surfaces of the rooms youre in (although here the translation is at its worst). It also does spooky extremely well, sneaking up on you when youre not expecting it, with a good few moments that made me laugh out loud at my own reaction. (Not jump-scares, I should add, for those who avoid such things.) Houses are packed with detail about the people who live there, and theres a strong sense of place about the whole thing., I do wish the ending didnt feel so rushed, somehow at once feeling like it explains far too much, and yet resolves far too little. But the journey there is absolutely worth it  this is a narrative adventure that smartly pretends to be a survival game, while not shying away from wanting to tell you its story. It doesnt have the slick perfection of Firewatch, its a rougher game (and again lets remember it was Kickstarted years before FW was released), but it understands the same ideas that made Firewatch work, and thats damned important. , Its tremendous at creating its distinct atmosphere and then drawing you deeper in. Its witty, spooky, and achieves an ideal sense of urgency. Weird, clamant and intriguing, this is well worth a look.

Every week we warp Brendan into the gaseous caverns of early access to see if he can find precious games worth playing in the gloom. This time, the subterranean space colonisation of Oxygen Not Included [official site], Everything is covered in piss. When I branded my new space colony Yellow Water Station I did so because I was prompted to come up with a suitable name for a settlement on the interstellar frontier. But all I could think of was how weird it is that astronauts drink their own recycled and purified urine. Yellow Water Station was my puerile attempt at humour. I didnt expect the new underground village I was building to accept its new moniker with such enthusiasm. Now everything is covered in piss, poisonous red gas is building up in the sleeping quarters, and theres a dead body at the bottom of one of the aquifers.
, Oxygen Not Included is a management game from Klei, the people who made Dont Starve and Invisible Inc. Its best thought of as a cartoony galactic disaster waiting to happen. Much is done in the style of Rimworld but viewed from a side-on angle. Everything happens below the surface of a distant planet, or possibly an asteroid (at least, I didnt reach any surface during my upward digging). Three chums are warped in to build and get the party started. As the cycles pass more chums will come through the warp gate, which gives you a choice out of three people for the colony. CRUCIALLY, the game allows you to rename all of your colonists. The founders of Yellow Water Station, for example, were a narcoleptic technician called Bumpo Bilgetank, a mediocre chef known as Fran Flan Pan, and Doctor Kill, a yokel physician., , They went about their early days as best as I could manage them. They carved out a home and made a latrine in a separate chamber. They made a food machine that turns dirt and water into horrible green bars of mush that come slowly out of the machines orifice when someone turns a crank. To power this source of food they built a battery. But to charge the battery one of them has to physically run inside a generator wheel, like a sad rodent. Bumpo Bilgetank was the technician and therefore the most qualified to periodically run like a hamster for several hours of the day., , After some time they were joined by a miner with a fabulous perm called Digmeister Jones. He made sterling work of a flooded passage by digging while completely submerged in water. He would hold his breath, dig, then escape for air, then go back under for more digging., , Eventually, the water dropped away into a new chamber, already formed by the randomly-generated landscaped. This, I thought triumphantly, shall be our sleeping den! Within four days we had blocked up the chamber again. It had filled with carbon dioxide. Digmeister Jones slept now on the floor of the latrine., , Like in many periods of my life, gas is a big issue. Here, the game simulates the passage of gases around your colonys chambers. Light gases float, heavy gases sink, they all mix and wander in whatever way science dictates and you can view them more easily on a special screen (see below). When you first warp in, there are some rocks that magically produce oxygen. But those dissolve quite quickly, meaning youve got to build machines and research new methods of making the underground air breathable. The colonists at Yellow Water set up two large machines that would turn algae (found on the walls of caverns and buried among the rock) into sweet, sweet O2. Later, we would turn to more ambitious methods of oxygen-producing., , Suffice to say, the bulk of the appeal here is in trying to manage all the different gases (and liquids) that plague your colonists. Carbon dioxide, hydrogen, contaminated oxygen  all of them are a threat in some way and you will have to research new tools and constructions to deal with them. Gas pipes, pressure valves, air filters, generators, vents, airlocks. Youll be building all of these in a vainglorious attempt to finally tame mankinds greatest nemesis  air itself. You might succeed. The people of Yellow Water did not., The team built new beds in an upper chamber following the loss of the lower chamber, which would remain a forbidden zone for the rest of my time as a space manager. They made enough cots for themselves and some new recruits that had warped into the caverns in the meantime. But this room too was becoming stifled. I needed more oxygen production. I turned to the glory of a machine called an electrolyzer, which we dipped into the surface of the water and powered with a separate battery and hamster wheel., , It worked! Precious oxygen was pumping out of it and making the bed chambers slowly more comfortable. But then I saw the other by-product. Hydrogen., , The red gas rose, lighter than the oxygen, and got trapped in pockets in the ceiling. I had an idea. I quickly ordered the colony to dig a tunnel, slightly upwards, into another off-site chamber, where the hydrogen could flow. But this could only be a stopgap. The electrolyzer didnt produce its gases constantly (only when the air pressure of the surroundings deemed it possible) but it did now and again splutter enough hydrogen into existence to become a growing concern. Meanwhile, by the warp gate, Digmeister Jones couldnt reach the toilet in time and wet himself in front of two of the colonys newest recruits., , These problems, both the red gas slowly building up in a rocky pocket and the hot urine dripping down into the kitchen, were a sign of things to come., But what we needed more urgently, I thought, was a means of dealing with carbon dioxide. A machine that could magically remove it from the air was still too far off on my research tree. But browsing the available options I fancied that I discovered a much better solution. I was going to create a slime farm., , You see, at this point I had the tech to create a bio distillery, which would convert slime (mined from the walls like any other block) into algae. With that I could create algae mounds  these look like heaps of compost but instead of creating fertilizer they slowly convert CO2 into oxygen. Dont worry about the details, just know that I did the maths. Fifteen algae pots will produce as much oxygen as one of the electrical O2 machines I currently have hooked up. But, significantly, each algae pile will not use electricity and once they are all combined they will consume less than half of the algae a machine would over the same time. Sustainability, ho!, , We got digging. I say we. I mean I ordered everyone else to dig. Once the slime farm was complete, I would be able to decommission the electrolyzer and put a stop to its treasonous red gas. A relief, because right now I am continually distracted from my tasks in order to build new chambers to where the hydrogen can freely flow. Eventually, the plan is to disassemble the electrolyzer, trap the hydrogen behind an airlock, and then simply forget all about the pocket of dangerous highly explosive gas. Ill put up a do not enter sign. Itll be fine., But it is easier to say slime farm than to make slime farm a reality. The bio distillery  the integral piece of equipment to the whole endeavour  needed more room than I thought, and also produced waste water that was contaminated. In an attempt to pump this contaminant into a nearby aquifer that was already green with toxicity, I ordered the chums to breach the intervening rock wall and install an outlet pipe as quickly as possible. The runoff would flow into a separate ditch, where it would be caught and contained. Then the wall and ditch would both be plugged again. It would last only a few minutes, I reasoned. That wont do much harm. Here is a picture of Fergus Fungusmeyer and Doctor Kill waist deep in filthy water, installing the drain pipe., , As you can see, Doctor Kill has become infected with The Spores. Dont worry, hell recover. Much worse is the effect opening this toxic gap has had on the air quality of the colony. Every chamber is soon filled with contaminated air. Everyone spends the next handful of days choking on a green miasma., , Even as they sleep, the stink pervades everything and spreads disease with it. Fran Flan Pan is the only one awake tonight. She needs the toilet but it is too full of human waste and she needs to plunge it. Life is terrible here. Why does anyone agree to come to Yellow Water?, , The miasma eventually faded after I installed some air purifiers all over the place. The slime farm also became functional but I had only built fifteen of the thirty algae piles I wanted. I considered decommissioning the electrolyzer now. But as I again browsed the new technology wed been developing a new idea came storming ferociously into my head., What if we made this hydrogen generator?, , And lo, it came to pass that the colony got its most powerful electrical generator yet. It took me a good amount of time to figure out the intake pipes, output pipes, air filters, vents, and pressure valves required to piece it all together. But by the end we had a great source of leccy. All it needed was the hydrogen from below to rise. And because of the way I had wired it, it only needed a person to come and spin the wheel to get it started. As long as the hydrogen kept flowing, it could run without human intervention indefinitely. A bigger version of the battery was keeping the energy stored and, as good levels of clean oxygen flowed among the populous, life in Yellow Water seemed, for a moment, to be good., , Then, the slime crisis. The bio distillery ran out of slime. One by one, the algae piles dried up. Oxygen levels would soon be dropping to dangerous levels. I ordered the colony, now numbering a hearty eleven people, to dig for more slime., , But the slime crisis was accompanied by the hydrogen crisis. A venting mistake (whoops) had caused huge amount of hydrogen to leak into the sleeping quarters. To make matters more unstable, the hydrogen crisis preceded the most troubling thing to happen to Yellow Water yet. The great piss crisis., , Sure, its possible we could have avoided the great piss crisis of cycle 30. Critics may suggest that installing more than a single functional toilet for eleven people would have been a good first step. Reducing stress by decorating the place or providing massage tables might also have helped. Providing the colony with more than one tiny lamp probably would have allowed people to navigate the settlement more happily and more easily, without say, wading through an ankle deep puddle of human urine. But those critics were not there. They know nothing of the demands of managing a space colony. It was very difficult that cycle and in the subsequent cycles. I had to order a lot of mopping up., , Sadly, the mopping was doing little to stop the failure of the colony. All these crises culminated and Yellow Water soon descended into absolute piss carnage. Stress levels among the colonists sky-rocketed and a man called Grub began to vomit from the anxiety of living in such a stinking yellow hell. Snores ODuggan, a man who slept apart from everyone else because he snored so loudly that it kept the others awake all night, began to destroy batteries throughout the colony in a blind rage, systematically disabling filters, air pumps, the distillery and the mush machine. Even in the dark and quiet nights, piss dripped down from the sleeping quarters, going from level to level before finally getting into the water supply., , Bumpo Bilgetank was the first casualty of those terrible times. He died while I wasnt looking. I dont know anything about it. But it seems that as I made busy decisions with pipes and the mop, he had been digging for much-needed slime and had fallen into a deep pit of contaminated water, where he subsequently drowned. He fell from a great height, perhaps slipping on the cocktail of urine and vomit that had accumulated at the mouth of the pit. Whatever the case, Yellow Water had suffered its first loss. One of the original founders had died. At the time of his death, said the game, he had been furious with stress., , Thats when I left Yellow Water Station. A manager cant be expected to fix everyones problems. Critics (damned critics!) might say this is the height of irresponsibility and that at the very least I should see out the development of the new latrines I started. Or that I should take urgent note of the food shortage that was quickly developing. Or that I ought to explore more of the research tree, with its refrigerators and showers and liquid filters and new-fangled overhead lights. But those critics dont have deadlines to meet. Ive got other things to do!, Yet Im sure, given the systems and silliness already on offer in Oxygen Not Included, that other space managers can and will be found. It doesnt quite have personality and drama on par with Rimworlds pawns and emergencies but it is certainly on the right track. Anyone who fancies some disgusting, gas-based lunacy will find something to like about the cartoon caverns here. As for me, Im done taking the piss.

Nier: Automata [official site] is unpredictable, from beginning to end(s). , What begins as a robot-smashing action game with gargantuan bosses soon becomes an open world RPG, then a bullet hell circus nightmare with confetti and corpses, and then something else entirely. To describe all of the things that Automata encompasses, even in vague terms, would be to spoil its greatest asset: surprise. For that reason, Ive avoiding the specifics of almost any of the wonderful and horrible things that happen. This is important., Lets stick with the basics then. Automata, at its best, fuses Platinums mastery of stylish action to a framework that works as both a tour and deconstruction of various genres, and a story both stranger and more interesting than it first appears. Its awesome., Nier: Automatas story concerns special forces androids who are sent to the surface of a ruined Earth to try and reclaim it from robots, built by aliens, who are waddling around the place like the mutant offspring of Dusty Bin, R2-D2 and Catchphrases Mr Chips. Your task, as YoRHa No.2 Type B (2B) is to follow orders beamed down from an orbital satellite, The Bunker, where the plan to regain control of Earth so that the remnants of humanity, now living on the moon, can go home., , Before you even have time to figure out the why and the what, youre plunged straight in at the deep end though, hacking, slashing and shooting your way through a grim industrial ruin, and getting to grips with the control system. Combat is simple to execute but tricky to master, with light attacks, strong attacks, and lock-on, fire and dodge buttons. 2B doesnt have a gun but she does have a Pod, a drone thing hovering around her, and it can pew-pew away at enemies from afar. Later, its possible to upgrade it with melee attacks, shields and other abilities, but for the opening hour, its your ranged option. , , Id recommend a controller (PS4 Dualshock for me) for comfort and to avoid the trickiness of twinstick shooting with a mouse and keyboard. It can work well, and Ive seen it work well elsewhere, but here its cumbersome. I havent had many issues with the port other than that, though those trying to play in super resolutions might be in for a rough time. On the whole, the PC version is passable rather than powerful., But with a game this fascinating, itd be a shame for any platform to miss out, particularly our own home ground. Even in its first hour, which is a little like an extended pre-credits sequence during which the game shows very little of its hand, Automata is a slick if unambitious action game. Its one of the few games that has made me notice the camera for positive reasons  usually, a games camera only draws attention to itself when its getting stuck on a characters arse or elbow, or crashing into a wall, but here the camera is a tool that makes the game malleable. Control of its position is taken away at certain points to reimagine a room as a side-scrolling shooter, a bullet hell arena or an Afterburning arcade flight sim. But with robots., , Always with robots. Nier wants to explore every possible angle of automated function and form, and it doesnt take long for the robots to reveal their secrets. Nothing is quite as it seems and as soon as youve figured out one twist in the tale, another clicks into place and its not long before you realise that this tale is prehensile and its not just capable of getting a grip on you, its rearranging all the pieces of the puzzle as you go., This goes back to my opening line: Automata is unpredictable. Its one of the most surprising games Ive ever played, and I dont mean that in the sense that monsters spawn in your face when youd least expect them to. Its the way that both the story and the action shift from one mood and genre to another as you move along. Much has been written of director Yoko Taros eccentricities as a creator, but Im struck more by a sense of curiosity. If the game does reflect his sensibilities, it speaks more of a mind flitting from one idea to the next, discarding each one as soon as its been examined. Despite the grand cohesive plot that runs through multiple playthroughs (Automata doesnt have New Game +, it has what are effectively entire new chapters to play following your first completion), Nier feels a bit like an anthology of stories, knitted together into something larger., , Because most of the game takes place in an open world RPG structure, youre not harnessed to Taros imagination, rushing from one revelation to the next. Instead, you can take your time if you so choose, enjoying what remains of life on Earth by riding moose and boar around the ruins of the world, or collecting crafting materials and doing sidequests. Im not particularly interested in collecting every glowing piece of kit that appears in the streets, deserts and forests, but I never felt I was being punished for ignoring that side of the game. And sidequests are rewarding both for the character- and world-building they reveal, and because the combat that is a large part of them is excellent., It doesnt quite show Platinum at their absolute best, but its rare to find an RPG with action so enjoyable. The boss fights show the systems at their best, requiring air-dodges, smashing combos and smart use of your Pods powers. Behind all of that is a levelling system thats both startlingly strange and perfectly fitting. Your android has a set of chips that run everything from elements of the HUD, which you can unplug and disable to make more space for other chips should you wish, to buffs and abilities. Brilliantly, should you want to play through the game as a storytelling exploration piece with minimum swordplay, Easy mode allows you to use chips that automate different aspects of combat. You can attach and remove each of them as you go., , You can even remove your characters OS, but you shouldnt. Seriously. Dont do that., The system essentially makes your character into a modifiable weapon, wielding other weapons that can also be levelled up, revealing their own backstories as they become more powerful. That concept, of the player character as a device for making war, is an integral part of the story, and thats how Automata works. For all of its genre-hopping and about-turns from tragedy to farce, and sincerity to flippant asides, it rarely fails to tie your actions to its story and themes., , I went into Automata expecting weird and came out the other side impressed by how sad, beautiful and strange a game that stars a sexy android can be. I dont have anything against sexy androids, but Id been expecting something much sillier, at the zany end of the weird spectrum. Instead, Automata surprised me yet again. Its very sad, very beautiful and very strange. The one major complaint I have is that it can be very brown and dull for extended periods, which suits the sense of a washed-out world, but also makes some locations ultra-bland. If youre scampering around in them for ages, thats your choice though. Unless its doing something spectacular and dramatic, Automata very rarely forces you to stay in one place for any length of time. , Having unlocked just a few of the endings (some are more like chapter breaks than endings, many are punchlines or small oddities), I feel like Ive feasted on a ten-course meal. Some of the food turned to ashes in my mouth, but only when that was by design. From its always-magnificent but alternately triumphant and mournful score to its massive intricate bosses and moments of bleak horror, Automata is a superbly controlled game. It gives you freedom to explore, to collect, to fight and to much about, but it always has one hand on the tiller and the other on that camera, directing the action and observing your every move., , Its rare to see such ambitious storytelling and open world roleplaying tied to such a stylish combat system, not to mention the (optional) Souls-like multiplayer elements, shooter tangents, mini-games that punctuate rather than interrupting, and that big ol world to explore. You dont need to have played any of Yoko Taros previous games to appreciate Automata, even though it has links to both Drakengard and (of course) the original Nier, but itll probably make you keen to seek them out. Me? Im hoping Platinum get a chance to work with these worlds and words again. A thousand ideas, delivered in rapid succession, backed by action that is the thread that stitches everything together rather than an interruption between one story beat and the next.

Here it is! The space game review youve all been waiting for on this, Monday the twentieth of March, 2017: Cosmic Express!, Cosmic Express [official site] is an adorable-but-also-rock-solid puzzle game from Alan Hazelden. Hes working with Ben Davis who was his collaborator on RPS favourite, A Good Snowman, and with Tyu of the Klondike collective. The result is a really satisfying puzzle game where you lay the track for a train in order to transport little alien blobs to their destinations., Right, SO! Basic game rules time: , The play space encompasses a grid of squares inside a space bubble. You can lay track on any of the spaces not occupied by a station or some other obstacle. If the passenger car you pull is empty when it comes alongside a station, the waiting alien blob hops in. If a full passenger car runs alongside an empty box of the same colour as the blob (i.e. the destination) the blob will hop out and set up a little home there. You cant take the train back over existing track so the main challenge of the game is drawing one continuous line that will enable travelling blobs to all reach their homes before your train chugs off into the next playspace. , Cosmic Express started life as a Train Jam game called Train Braining and elements of that early game still exist but the project has been fleshed out and polished up with a lot of playtesting to help figure out the difficulty curves of the experience. The levels are now organised into little galaxies with Train Brainings original levels now placed in accordance to their difficulty. After three hours of play Id opened up seven of the galaxies. , As you progress youll unlock extra mechanics  the galaxies are generally themed around each of the new ideas. You also encounter levels at the points where galaxies branch off into new destinations where there are multiple solutions. I dont mean that in terms of the wiggle room you might get with track placement, although in some levels you can add extra swerves and loops for your train just for the fun of it. The multiple solutions Im talking about here are the ones where you solve the puzzle in a different way which means your train ends up taking a different exit tunnel out of the space and chuffing off towards a new branch of levels or an alternative galaxy. , , Some of the other ideas Ive encountered as I progressed are trains with room for more than one passenger, warp tunnels which act as a kind of junction so you can cross that same square multiple times, and the delightful green alien blob which joyfully soils the carriage of the train it rides in so that none of the other alien blobs will use it. , Difficulty is a strange one when talking about puzzle games because a lot depends on the player. I mean, you can use statistics and playtesting to figure out the basic difficulty curve, but that wont rule out a player getting in the zone and slicing through multiple levels in one session like a hot buttered knife through a chocolate teapot. It also wont rule out a player getting some odd personal mental block and being unable to fathom how to solve a puzzle that involves drawing a straight line down the middle of a grid. , I say this because one of the questions people ask when I talk about puzzle games is How hard is it? I often cant answer helpfully because it depends on how your brain is primed to see different types of connections. Spatial logic is my jam so for me, Cosmic Express is largely straightforward but with some nice difficulty spikes that keep me interested. Id say that I tend to look at the puzzle for a while before I start and then try to solve it in one go. Thats getting less easy to do and thus the difficulty curve is definitely pulling upwards in general., As you get deeper into the game youll encounter mechanics where you cant discern how the blobs will react without trying them first. For example, if you run track between two stations, both blobs will try to get in and will bounce off each other and back onto the platforms. Thus you learn that youll need to find a way to pick up one without triggering the other. , The only inelegant rule I found so far is that when you do the opposite and take an occupied train carriage between two empty platforms the blob will pick one and exit but you cant predict which until youve tried it. Thus theres consistency in that the blob will henceforth only get out in that direction if you drive through those two destinations at the same time and can factor that into your solution, but its not a broader rule you can apply across the whole game. Its not a case of always preferring the uppermost option or the one on the right and that unknowable element feels oddly sloppy. It also means that Ive routed solutions which would have been valid if the blob had chosen to exit in one direction but it chose the other and thus I had to go back to the drawing board. , But thats not a difficulty curve thing, just a bit of inelegant design. So lets look at the difficulty curve:, At first that manifested as a wave of solve-it-first-time levels and then Id encounter something which needed me to think a bit differently about an obstacle or a mechanic. There were a few difficulty spikes within that, too. Those were characterised by multiple attempts at solutions, frustrated mutterings into my current cup of coffee and then leaving them alone for a while so I could try afresh at a later point in time. But now Im at the edges of the space where you can do that and most of my progress comes as I nibble at the edges of galaxies, making smaller bursts of progress while doing more testing and thinking. , Delphinus 13 is my current nemesis., , The easiest point of comparison here is A Good Snowman Is Hard To Build. Thats perhaps unsurprising because it was created by two thirds of the same team, but the thing they have in common is theyre a sort of neat, compact logic cake dressed with a cute, approachable icing. The majority of the slices are bite-sized pieces which slip down quite easily for me but with some of the others you seem to get more cake than icing and you have to work your way through it, turning it this way and that to get it to fit into your puzzle mouth? That analogy stopped working. But you know what I mean, I hope. Also Im thinking of going out to get some cake., Anyway, where was I? Yes. Compact, delightful, slightly wonky in terms of difficulty curves for me and I think overall I preferred A Good Snowman simply because I find the track placement sometimes has a bit too much wiggle room for it to feel entirely neat, whereas rolling the snowballs for A Good Snowman stayed as a very tight experience. But! Cosmic Express is just as delightful to look at, and has a really solid core of puzzling to get your brain around!, ADAM is this review finished? Can I go and see if theres a Battenberg in the shop? [Ed: yes, but only if you bring me back a slice of carrot cake]

Strap in. Mass Effect Andromeda [official site] is out on Tuesday in the US, and then because EA still lives in 1987, in Europe on Thursday. Ive played it for over 70 hours, seen the main ending, and am entirely ready to tell you wot I think. Its well worth reading my previous piece on the first few hours, as theres much there thats relevant that Ive not repeated below., Mass Effect Andromeda feels like a game that exists because there needed to be a new Mass Effect game. Its hard, as deeply as you explore it, to find something that shows any other reason for it to be. Despite the extraordinary opportunity of a fresh start, fresh characters, and even a fresh galaxy to set it in, this feels like a lengthy rehash of what came before. It is bad in many ways, from its madcap AI, poor character faces, dated design and most of all, horrible writing, but its biggest crime is just how unavoidably, all-encompassingly dull it is for so, so many hours., , There is an odd phenomenon, however. Ive played for something like 75 hours. I was being thorough, focusing on what to me seemed the most important tasks, but endlessly drawn into side quests and mini-adventures. And yet there is a wealth of game remaining, even after the official ending. It let me do that, play the way I picked (or, as the case really was, the most bearable way), and thats a huge achievement, something very rarely seen outside of Bethesda games. And in that time, I found what I enjoy in Mass Effect Andromeda, the aspects of an utterly enormous game that let me have some fun. Qualified fun, fun incessantly interrupted by bugs and irritations, mistakes and the unceasing misery that is its turgid, sophomoric writing. But some fun., , This is the story of the inhabitants of the Milky Way venturing to a new galaxy. A group of one hundred thousand or so members across five races (Human, Turian, Asarian, Salarians and Krogan) making the extraordinary trip across dark space to go somewhere completely new. A six hundred year cryo-frozen journey, to explore what might be. It is, in its concept, so massive, so wonderfully bursting with possibility, so hugely exciting. It is, in delivery, just about as unambitious an approach to the idea as you could think of., This tale of discovering Andromeda  or at least the Hellius cluster within it  is populated by some cardboard cut-outs from a science fiction display stand. Rubber-masked baddies (with the least scary-looking big bad of all time), an astoundingly familiar alien race, and  just to ensure no originality could slip in through a crack beneath the door  an ancient, mysterious and technologically accomplished missing race (with a peculiar love for airport puzzle books)., Think about a new galaxy, a whole new potential of life forms, of evolutionary exoticism, of astounding new ideas. Now discard them all and think of intensely familiar bipedal people living in ordinary cities with ordinary thoughts, relationships, educations, jobs, and would you believe it, technology exactly on a par with what you just happened to bring with you. Floating octopuses that think in cascading colours? Societies based on amorphous interaction? Ideas better than the ones Im throwing out? Nope, not a single thing., , You are a Pathfinder, either male or female, named Ryder. You gain the title of Pathfinder within the opening moments of the game despite not being qualified or experienced for the role, without it ever being meaningfully explained, and then are immediately treated like the second coming. It is, as best as I can cobble together, a job title for someone who surveys whether planets are suitable for living on, aided by an AI that directly interacts inside your brain. Each of the five species shipped twenty thousand souls, and one Pathfinder and one AI, called SAM. Except when your human ark shows up, you crash into a strange space anomaly thats twisted throughout the cluster known as the Scourge. It wasnt there on your magic quantum telescopes when you left, but (and Im not being facetious here, this genuinely is the plot) no one thought that things might change on planets over the course of six bloody centuries. Things changed, and the galaxy isnt as you were expecting, the planets arent suitable for habitation, and before you turned up the people who set off early to establish the nu-Citadel, the Nexus, had a big falling out and an awful lot of them were exiled., As if that werent drearily inevitable enough, theres also a race of cartoon baddies called the Kett, whose grumpy gnarled faces ensure you realise theyre bad, who shoot at you on sight for no reason (in fact, against all reason when you learn more of their nefarious plans) wherever you go. Oh, and just in case this didnt feel like all the other Mass Effects, theres ancient alien tech on all the planets that just might help. Off you go., The AI, SAM, is an invention of your fathers, and is a key aspect of the game. You and he communicate all the time, and you are required to use a scanner all the time, with SAM adding colour commentary on what you see. So of course the matter of AI becomes a crucial one in the story, what with AI having been banned in the Milky Way, and people very nervous of it now after their experiences of the Geth., , Lets talk about the combat as this is going to be a very negative review of a very mediocre game, and the combat is almost great., You can choose to focus on three aspects, combat, tech and biotics, which correspond to fighting, mechanics and magic. Each has its own (samey) skill tree and you can put abilities together in groups of three, and then switch between the groups on the fly. I began by putting everything into biotics, but then running out of uses for skill points there (when youve maxed out an ability, its a waste of time really to start on another that does almost the same) and so have improved the passive skills in the other sections. I focused on pistols, sniper rifles and biotic Pull and Throw, which can be used together for fun combos., In play, this works out like any other third-person action game really, except with the ability to blast baddies into the sky for entertainment. Headshots, ducking in and out of cover, sitting back and letting rival enemy groups beat each other up for a bit You know the score, and its all delivered well enough. Its nothing exciting, but it entertains in the same way Far Cry does. Clear out a camp, run in and scoop up the loot, and most likely find a new collectable thatll build into yet another side quest. Its only thwarted by the completely appalling team AI., , Companion AI is a disaster, most distinctly because its so incessantly noticeable. You want your buddies to just be there, trotting behind you until fighting starts. Instead they are bonkers, darting back and forth as if chased by wasps, and have the most wonderful/ridiculous need to climb on top of things. Just stand in a room looking at a computer terminal and your buddies will jump up onto cupboards, beds, desks, whatever they can find. More than anything, they take this most difficult path on offer. Why run down some stairs when they can jump over a railing behind some crates, then have to run in an enormous circle around a building to find you again?! Its definitely amusing, but bloody stupid. And when they react to their self-imposed obstacle courses by letting out terrified grunts, its also damned annoying., But get into battle and its much more serious. I cannot tell you how often they just run in front of you and stand still, screwing up shots, bumping you out the way, not shifting out of cover you need, or ignoring enemies immediately in front of them. They can be a help, and when it works its fun to see them using their abilities to kill off enemies, but theyre just as likely not to., Enemy AI is clumsy, but isnt it always, and this only becomes more problematic when  say  the giant robot youre trying to kill is entirely encased by a small hill, somehow able to still shoot at you. But so goes this clearly unpolished mess of bugs., , It cannot be understated just how much there is of this game. And not just in the way its a big stack of explorable maps smothered in icons (thanks Ubisoft for your contagion sweeping through all of gaming), but in the way that theres recorded dialogue in what must be unprecedented quantities, more side quests than every other game in history put together, and a genuinely impressive variety in ways to play. Theres charging about in your six-wheeler over planets, uncovering enemy encampments, having cover-based shoot-outs. Theres exploring ancient temples of the Remnant. Theres chatting with absolutely everyone you come across. There are lengthy missions (that play out like raids) in special locations. There are (optional) multiplayer games tied into the main plot. And theres trying to do sex on everyone you encounter., What unites all these different features is the most unrelentingly dull writing, cliches and aphorisms pouring out like the waterfalls theyd use as an analogy in this sentence. Every chat lasts three times longer than it needs to, and theyre achingly boring from casual encounters to the deepest moments in relationships. I cannot explain this better than by giving a lengthy example from one moment in the first few hours, a chat about the potentially complex and messy subject of faith., , One member of your crew, a scientist, reveals to you that she believes in God. Now, this is old territory for Mass Effect, where in the first game you had a right-wing Christian on your crew, and it was handled especially well. Not so this time! This is genuinely the conversation:, Just all of it. So alien. A constant reminder of the divine intelligence behind all creation., Divine intelligence? A god?, Yes, I believe in a higher power. I know its a little odd. But Im a scientist because science brings me closer to something greater than myself., To this you are given two possible responses. Beyond all credibility, they are:, I feel the same way.
Or
Theres no higher power., What the hell? Youre given the choice of either emphatically agreeing that you too believe in God, or you rudely tell a woman you barely know that her faith is bullshit. Honestly, I was tempted just to walk away from the game than be forced into picking one of those two answers. But I went for the former, since at least it wasnt rude, and I was trying to flirt with her anyway. She expresses her pleasure that someone else agrees that its possible to believe in science and God at the same time, and then in what must be one of the worst lines of dialogue in gaming history, your characters option of a flirting reply is:, You definitely have an interesting perspective on the interplay between faith and science., This isnt how people speak., , This is endemic, permeating from conversations through to grand ideas. Entire races are still described as having a single personality type. Quick-minded, sharp someone says of the Angara, as if thats going to be a common trait across an entire sentient species. A single philosophy is attributed to the entire species, across multiple planets, as if no one would disagree, ever, across space and time., Giant decisions sproing out of nowhere, with no warning. Youre just idly clearing out yet another identikit dungeon, and then suddenly youre asked to decide if you should kill a bunch of innocent people for some potential wider benefit. Theres no flow, no sense of history, just bonkers false choices when a nuanced response would be far more valid (and in BioWare games, previously optional)., There is, as ever, the one crewmate who doesnt want to talk to you. Who you have to win over by, er, waiting. But this time theyve ingeniously picked the character from a race who incessantly go on about how they dont hide their feelings. He wont talk to you, wont say why. Everything feels this inconsistent, people explaining their reasons for not liking other people like primary school children, all spats and no sophisticated moral reasoning. , , Perhaps most significantly, they made the bold decision to remove good/evil responses that have been a mainstay of the developers RPGs, but theyve failed to replace them with anything close to as meaningful. As a result, theyve essentially removed the majority of choice at all. At one point youre offered an extremely significant deal that contains an element thats tantamount to extortion. In any other BioWare game before youd argue this, perhaps choose it as the lesser of two evils, or reject it based on principle. Here you get two choices: to accept it, or accept it while making a joke. Its quite bizarre how far theyve gone in removing the illusion of autonomy, while still seeming to think theyre offering dialogue choice., , Of all the Mass Effect games to take away the opportunity to be a dick to your crewmates, boy did they pick the wrong time. Having spent dozens and dozens of hours in their company, I can tell you that I neither like nor dislike any of them. I pretend to dislike Liam and Gil, because both are presented as cock-er-nee blokey-blokes, and its ghastly, so I try to pick responses that will upset them, but theres barely anything that could and nothing interesting comes of it., Ive never before played a BioWare game where I wasnt torn about who to take with me in a landing party. Those moments of, Oh no, but I have to take X on this trip because its his home planet, but that means I will miss Y! Theres not even a glimmer of it. I resentfully take two along, not caring what either will add. Its so, so odd., , Let me give another example thats emblematic of almost every aspect of the writing: theres one sidequest on Eos where you find a message from a dude who died in the middle of doing a job, planting radio beacons in various hard-to-reach places. So your task is to finish the job for him, out of respect. With each beacon you place, a message automatically plays, an adult womans voice saying empty aphorisms about what a good job her dad is doing. Right, you think, so his daughter recorded him these messages, so shes probably dead  where is this going to go?, Where it goes is the shocking revelation that  oh no!  shes dead! And from this were asked to feel an emotional response, with your companions leadenly explaining that its emotional, you see. Meaningless platitudes from a dead daughter playing out as you complete the task of a dead father. Its an embarrassment, as if saying, SOMEONE IS DEAD, SO THERE IS SADNESS! is how it works. It could have been handled delicately, the messages could have been subtle, messages of genuine complicated love between a father and daughter, a short story playing out as you learn of their trials and their grief. That he never got to hear these messages from his dying daughter should have been the hook, should have tugged at the player, played on our own emotional attachments to parents and children. Instead, as with every part of the games writing, it was flat, perfunctory and robotic., , Much has been made of issues regarding facial animation, but much of the time faces can look great. Non-human faces. Humans they did not get right. The whole game is this weird flip-flop between gorgeous and ugly, sometimes showing you incredible vistas in detailed scenes, other times awkward greys and blues with boring boxes. Some characters look amazing, others look drawn in crayon. Sometimes special effects are dazzling, other times embarrassing. Its certainly not Frostbite at its best. But sometimes it can look really lovely., The bugs, oh there are many. Ive had Ryder get stuck in a star jump pose, and skid around like a paper doll. Ive had to quit and restart because conversations couldnt be left. Characters talk over each other ALL the time, making it impossible to hear key information  and more egregiously, companions will sometimes suddenly start reminding you about an active quest, cutting off the new information to which youd been listening. Ive fallen through floors, been killed by rocks (see above), am constantly told theres something to scan when theres nothing to scan, have characters loop vital conversations, and Ryder nearly always clips and gets stopped when trying to run up a flight of stairs , Then add to that a litany of irritants. For example, on an ice planet, every single time you step away from a heater SAM says, Pathfinder, the temperature is dropping, or variants thereof, and then when you pass the next one, Pathfinder, the temperature is stabilising, life support systems at 100%. Non-stop! Every ten seconds he says one or the other! On so many different planets! And then every time you drive past something you can mine He DOES NOT SHUT UP., , And you cant just get back on your ship any more. It has to take off from the planet youre on, even if you just want to check your bloody email (apparently multitools still cant manage this feat), which involves watching two tedious unskippable cutscenes then two more to land to carry on where you were. Add that to the glacial planet scanning (because everyone LOVED that in Mass Effect II, right?!) and it makes for an annoying game., I mentioned in my last article about how atrocious is the UI, and it bears repeating. Its awful in every imaginable way, bewilderingly so. Menus are miserable to navigate, and often barely functioning. When looking through the codex or quest journal or inventory to find newly added content, its (usually) marked with a blue tick. Which would be helpful if it werent designed as to not let you see them. Anything past the first six entries is off the bottom of the scrolling list, but the act of scrolling highlights each entry, and highlighting them removes the !. As you scroll down to find whats been slotted in new, it unmarks itself before it appears on screen. Thats bewildering, and makes the reams of content even more unnavigable. And when youre trying to find new quests in the massive shopping lists, infuriating., Then there are the exclams that wont disappear, the ones that are marked in the tab but dont appear anywhere in the lists within, the ones that arent marked on a sub-heading its a mess., When shopping or crafting you can compare weapons to what youre currently holding, but not armour to what youre currently wearing. When crafting you can either have everything you can currently craft from every category lumped together in one enormous list, or lists of everything craftable in a category which doesnt highlight what you can currently craft. New items like augmentations or blueprints arent added to the tops of lists, but rather slotted in all over the place, and thus the scrolling-deleting-the-exclams issue renders these useless as well It just goes on and on., , So there are two big problems. A game thats somewhere between unpolished and unfinished, and a game thats just flat and unoriginal and uninspired. Theres the ability to wile away many hours cleaning icons from maps, and its worth noting that I lost myself in this multiple times, but in these surroundings, not worth celebration. Itll keep you busy, but not in a way that feels like you used the time well., Is it as bad as my previous comments on the first few hours suggested? Kind of, yes, but diluted down by sheer volume of busywork. Theres nothing Ive found that redeems its crappy writing, threadbare companions, moribund story, and ghastly UI. But, well, the best I can say is it occupies time. The drivings kind of fun, with its own list of annoyances. Um. Some its fine., Which is frustrating, because dammit, I wanted a wonderful new Mass Effect game, and such a huge amount of effort and work has gone into this. For all its cacophony of flaws, its a vast and intricate creation, into which many people have clearly poured huge quantities of energy. To see so much achieve so little is dispiriting in the extreme., , Bugs will, Im sure, be fixed over the coming weeks, and maybe if enough people ask they could ditch the UI and start from scratch on something that works. But it wont be able to remove that ennui that weighs down so heavily over its formulaic tale, especially after its daft ending., Ive a very strong feeling that people are going to buy this anyway, and many will milk from it what they can in order to feel rewarded. Thats great. But as a follow-up to the previous trilogy, its a timid and tepid tale too heavily reliant on what came before, too unambitious for what could have been, trapped in a gargantuan playground of bits and pieces to do., , Also, who the hell travels to another galaxy and doesnt bring the Elcor with them?

Pixel Privateers [official site] is a lost-in-space roguelikeish thats focused on interplanetary ground missions and loot-showers rather than interstellar survival. Though its title and appearance suggest cynical faux-retromancy, underneath that mercenary skin theres plenty going on., Says pixel in the title, has pixel art in the game. Me, Ive got pixel ennui, but nothing here is objectionable. In fact, the environment art shoots for a bit more detail and is far more attractive than the squat block-head characters. Said characters may be borrowing liberally from other sci-fi too. Was that a Jawa I saw? And I swear I just shot a pack of Borg, Thats the pixel element done, so now I can natter about the game proper. Its a team-based, side-on Diablo, only rather than an open map youre selecting away missions from your spaceship. In between these, you manage a quartet of resources to fund both upgrades and survival, with the emphasis heavily on the former., , In every mission, youll collect a shower of various loot (lets be honest, if this hadnt had pixel in the title, it would have plumped for loot), much of which is little more than junk, but some of which gives your team a meaningful offensive or defensive boost. , Others still can actively change one of your units class  not merely allowing you to stick a hammer in her hand and switch a unit from ranged to melee, but also add off-hand items that might make a medic into an engineer or scout. Truth be told, this isnt a major element of play, as by and large you want to keep every major role filled by someone so will likely just typecast your whole squad, but it means you get to play with pretty much any new toy you might find. Theres a touch of the Borderlands to it, in that youre regularly getting drops that noticeably mix things up, though mostly for kicks., You cant equip new findings or level up until youve survived a mission and headed back to your spaceship, at which point its a carnival of upgrades. Slap the best new goodies onto your team, spend ability points to improve their aptitude in ye olde strength/agility/stamina/intelligence fayre, and spend research points on team-wide bonuses. If that werent enough, you also have the option to spend resources on cloning particularly tasty gear or, in an excellent twist, members of your team. , , Its not strictly necessary as you can recruit externally and rename anyone at any time, but you can use cloning both to save a backup copy of your most treasured squadies (if youre playing in the optional permadeath mode) and to fill your ranks with the best possible new recruits  exact duplicates of people you already trust. I played one game with a squad composed of only the same person, each with a different number after their name. Granted, their various kit made them all look different on the battlefield, but I was tickled pink nonetheless. I feel that this is an idea that a new XCOM or Syndicate game could make fine thematic use of. , Combat, the main element of Pixel Privateers, is less successful than is the endless tinkering outside of it. Which is to say, its mostly a matter of frantic right-clicking, with a bit of hotbar skills action, which can feel pretty brainless. The exception to this is when a given fight, such as against a boss, gets significantly tougher, in which case theres a tactical pause system whereby you can hit Space and tell your characters exactly what to do rather than simply spam em at the nearest enemy., Sometimes it does actively require this, and if youre playing on hard mode with permadeath enabled youll certainly use it a whole lot more. Though more involved than spamming, I dont know that Id go all the way to saying its much more interesting. Youre just scrolling through characters and activating their abilities in pause. , , Mission structures can be tiresome too, such as having to find five specific rooms (not difficult, just requires a bit of trudging) then use your scanner to laboriously find up to five anomalies (the riveting likes of broken pipe) in each of them. Same goes for, say, freeing three sets of three prisoners. Its just a looping structure thats there for the endless quest to level up and find loot. , There are meta-game goals involving finding magic crystals, hopping to new systems and increasing your squad size, and you need to keep a weather eye on your ships fuel as it flies between planets, in addition to managing the resources required for buying or cloning new stuff. , , Most of all, though, Pixel Privateers is shootnloot. Its playful and polished enough to make its shallowness work  treat it as a while-away-your-time game, not the grand tension of FTL or the exercise in punishing perseverance of Darkest Dungeon. , Pixel Privateers knows exactly what its doing, and though its about as deep as a microwave lasagne, its almost impossible not to lose yourself to it for a few evenings.

Were currently spoiled for choice when it comes to collectible card games. If youre not into the traditional nature of the efficient Hearthstone, you might dip your toes into the monster chess of Duelyst, and if you dont fancy that maybe youll swan off with the Gods of Smite Tactics (although I wouldnt currently recommend it). Into this arena comes Faeria [official site] a board-game-card-game hybrid that moves slowly and methodically but soon reveals itself to be quietly clever., Heres the basics: you (intrepid, handsome) and your opponent (untrustworthy, a jerk) face off on opposite sides of a hexagonal grid. Its all water. Both of you take turns plopping down both bits of land and minions to travel across that land. There are four fountains that continually produce faeria  the magical points that you need to summon things and cast spells  so controlling those is important. But the ultimate goal is to get over there and bash your opponents face until they run out of health. The challenge here is that youre really playing two games at once. A game of territory control and a game of monster murdering. What happens in one will affect the other, and in big ways., This is because the type of lands you create will determine what kind of cards you can place onto the board and where exactly you can place them. You cant summon a powerful warrior on your enemys hexagons, only on your own. And certain cards need to be placed on the land they call home  green minions on forest tiles, yellow minions on desert tiles, red minions on mountain tiles and blue minions on water tiles (these tiles arent the same as the default water underneath everything, they are more like lakes, but many blue minions can swim through an area with no land at all). Likewise, there is a neutral land type along with neutral minions that can be summoned anywhere, so long as the tile belongs to you. You can create two neutral lands in any one turn, whereas special lands (forests, deserts, etc) can only be made one at a time., , Because of all this terrain chicanery, decks usually specialise. Ive been playing mostly as the vegetarian greens, with a deck that focuses on spreading trees quickly and boosting the power and health of my most giant creatures. As soon as I have a good amount of tree tiles on the board, I summon the Oak Father, who gets more health for each forest I own., Other decks, like the watery blues, focus on summoning lots of frogs who can jump two spaces, lowering the need to place land in certain places, or they might simply be planning to jump over your own troops so that your opponent can place down a sneaky lake in the middle of your turf, an act that wouldnt normally be possible if the lands themselves arent connected. The mountainous reds are all about dealing damage directly to the god (thats you) and the sandy yellows are all about being super fast, able to charge across multiple spaces at once, but they also like to sacrifice their own creatures to buff others in their ranks., , While none of that sounds very unique, there remains the possibility of mixed decks. Or, to put it another way, you can craft a deck that majors in mountains with a minor in lakes, if thats what you really want. For instance, Ive seen a foe place down forest after forest only to see him raise a desert out of the blue in the centre of the map  a useful place to spawn windy sand demons that can charge straight at my godly visage., There are cards that require both a set number from two or more terrain types, such as the Soul Eater, who is stronger from each death over the course of the game and needs both 3 forests and 3 deserts on the board to be summoned. Or the Three Wishes card, which needs two of every land type and nicks three of your opponents cards. Itll be familiar territory for anyone who has played with the abstract elemental land-currencies of Magic: The Gathering, except this time the territory actually exists., , In reality, I didnt see a lot of mixing and matching, maybe because at lower levels it is easier to stick with a mix of neutral cards and a single colour. But it is certainly possible, and that opens up many more silly combos than would normally be possible., Its easy to see Faerias strength when compared to other CCGs of its ilk. Where the creators of Duelyst had the audacity to think: What if we made Hearthstone, but on a board? the makers of Faeria instead took a look at Magic, and said: What if we did that, but on a board, but you make the board up as you go, but so does the other player, but also maybe some of the minions can fly or swim through the water?, , On top of that brainwave, there are many small clever elements that roll into the design. For example, instead of simply making a land tile every turn, you have other options, collected in a little panel on the bottom right. This one panel assaults you with choice. You can either:, , But you can only do one of these things. Assuming you have a deck that specialises, that means youve got four real options here. And there are times when this is paralysing. Do you take the two neutral lands so you can make a rush with this charging Oblivion Rider for your enemys faeria well? Do you plant down another Desert so you can summon a Golden Aviary which will empower your flying units? Or do you take an extra mana so you can afford to play the Lord of The Wastes and take out the giant forest monster thatll be threatening your god next turn? Time is ticking down. I know, draw another card and see what happens. Oh no, that was a mistake., Each option by itself is a small thing, but by making you choose between them all once per go is something that transforms almost every turn into a critical decision. Eventually, one of you will make the wrong call, or two wrong calls. Thats when things fall apart slowly and messily, like a wet newspaper., , The opening is especially important, since your first tendrils of land heading out into the world will signal both your intentions and the cards in your deck. Ill often pop down two neutral tiles out to the side and summon a Farmer Boy or other weak unit from my opening hand, so he can gather the magical fizzy pop from one of the nearest wells. But then imagine if my opponent suddenly ignores their own wells and sticks two neutral lands coming straight to the centre of the board. Now Im faced with a dilemma. If I dont get some buffer between me and those lands, hell be able to encroach into my side of the board and spawn there every turn. But if I ignore this land-creep and go for the other well of fizzy pop, Ill have a much stronger economy than him right off the bat. In this instance, Id probably panic and draw another card, like a giant idiot man., My first few games with the AI (there are loads of solo mission packs, puzzles and campaigns) left me pleasantly hooked on all this pinpoint decision-making. Likewise, I had a good time in Pandora mode, a kind of draft mode where both players recieve special treasures that radically change the game by giving you loads more cards or buffing your minions to ridiculous extremes or some other such insanity. But getting into the workaday battle mode and facing off against non-treasured humans I started to feel a certain sluggishness come into the game. Matches can last a long time and much of it can turn into a back and forth of adding together small numbers, until somebody invests too much mana in a single failed rush, or gets their star minion turned into a frog., , By the time I had faced off against multiple human wizards I had mixed feelings about it. The creation of your own arena adds a refreshing layer of extra thought to every match, and that little panel with all the choices  land, magic, extra card  really does force some tough decisions. But it suffers from Hearthstones old problem. After the opening, a single mislaid volley or simple error can leave you spiralling, totally unable to recover. There are rarely dramatic turnarounds, like in the much speedier Duelyst. When you start to win, you keep on winning, slowly encroaching on enemy territory and making sure there are no holes in your own landscaping decisions. Once you start to lose, its like being slowly flushed down a giant novelty toilet. More often than not, you just sit and watch unable to take back those lost wells or make up for that lack of cards., Its hugely demoralisng and most of my games  both wins and losses  end with the other player surrendering long before a final blow is even possible. Because you can tell from the swarming enemies, the lack of fizzy-pop, the bad selection of cards, that you lost this game eight turns ago when you mistakenly moved your most important unit into range of a guard with Taunt. Games between those close in skill level, far from being tense and exciting, turn out to be like a match between equally strong soccer teams. Long, boring, ultimately not worth the 90 minutes it took., , Pacing issues arent its only fault. Like most other games of this kind, the free-to-play currency conversion here is not great value for money. While crates full of cards drop generously over your first 20 levels, especially if you indulge the solo missions, the crystals used to craft specific cards are hard to save up and dismantling other cards to get these crystals results in a rubbish return. It feels like walking into GAME and getting 50p for your copy of The Last of Us. The special Steam pack, currently 26.99, feels steep for the contents (10 Battle Chests, 3 Mythic Chests, 3250 Gems and a little gold digger man for 30 days). I splodged some cash on this when it was on sale to see how everything stacked up and I still dont feel like I got my moneys worth., , Despite those reservations, and the sometimes plodding nature of the matches, theres a lot of brains to Faeria. Its certainly more interesting to me than vanilla Hearthstone, even if many of its cards lift directly from the big book of CCG mechanics. Its a game of risk, reward and really bad decisions. Its many times more thoughtful than Duelyst, which is always my yardstick for card games. But at the same time it is much less climactic, less explosive, and less creative with its minions and their abilities. In other words, if there was a little panel in the bottom right of your screen with all the collectible card games to choose from residing in it, then youll probably find your own temperament is going to make the decision for you. Just dont click draw another card.

Invent an exciting new games technology. Imagine all the possibilities. New worlds, new forms of interaction, new creativity mediums, maybe even new ways of humans interacting with each other. , Lets be honest. Its going to end up being all about guns, isnt it?, And so it is that Unreal/Gears of War studio Epics Oculus Rift-exclusive first-person shooter Robo Recall [official site] joins Serious Sam VR and SUPERHOT VR in the so-far short roster of virtual reality titles I can see myself revisiting relatively often. What these have in common is, of course, face-shooting. Im not proud, but I did have a bloody good time.
, Theres a lot thats familiar about Robo Recall, in that many VR shooters seem to be broadly singing from the same hymn sheet despite early speculation that the technology would allow for hitherto undreamed-of ways of interacting with a videogame. This means that Robo Recall, like Serious Sam and to a lesser extent SUPERHOT before it, has a little more in common with an arcade lightgun shooter than it does a first-person shooter. , , Player-character movement remains a problem that hasnt quite been solved, and so once again we end up with a hybrid approach that involves often staying in more or less the same spot, with a bit of ducking and diving and maybe a few short hops to either side of that fixed position. In this case, we get the point-to-teleport movement system too, which can be rather awkward but has one of the slicker implementations Ive seen here, in that you can additional twitch a thumbstick in a given direction to specify which direction you want to be facing when you arrive. , Its not quite second nature to do  every time the port finishes I spin around like a Muppet, trying to work out where the enemy I was trying to get within range of has gone to  but it is fast., I suppose that, in theory, the requirement for Oculus Touch controllers and their attendant second motion controller means this could seek a quasi-room scale approach, but given its levels involve streets and rooftops, making its spaces adapt to your own space might be an impossibly tall order. Anyway: my point is that this is a game in which the top half of my body is moving constantly, but my legs are those of a shy 14-year-old dancing at his first high school ball. Theres a fair whack of cognitive dissonance, but its a bit of a workout, in weird sort of way., , I should say what Im doing, which is shooting lots and lots of robots  or recalling them, as the sinister robot-making corporation which has tasked me with resolving a mass malfunction/rebellion puts it. I say shooting, but it is more physical than that  though in the main Im trying to score headshots with my hands, I can also pull bullets out of mid-air and hurl them back at the bots who fired them, or grab a bot bodily then use my other hand to rip its head or a limb off. And then hurl said head or limb at the next robot. , Robo Recall makes me a frantic cyclone of destruction, the force of my mechanical slaughter matched only by my sheer ineptitude whenever I try to teleport. Its a party, basically, mixing the accuracy of lightgun shooting with the physicality of Wii gaming. , , Now, SUPERHOT did something similar, in terms of pairing shooting with furious arm-waving, but where that turned every encounter into a murderous logic puzzle (in what order and with what objects will you kill everyone in order to avoid being killed yourself?), this is more of a wave-based affair in which doing well enough gradually unlocks new weapon options, thus taking it closer to VR FPS norms. , Its lavish with it though  robots dropping from the sky, mantling onto ledges, leaping over cars. Theres no escaping that youre essentially playing arena-based score attack, but quite clearly a shit-ton of money and expertise has been gone into this, and it looks and feels some distance ahead of the VR shooter pack. , , I think I personally prefer Serious Sam, because of its cackling straightforwardness, but this is both better-presented and a whole lot more flexible, and as such probably sells VR better than Croteams simpler prospect. It doesnt have the cool or ingenuity of SUPERHOT though, with the latter very much a VR essential in my book and this more of a probably. Its a good time and makes particularly excellent use of the lightweight Touch controllers, with their pinchngrab suited to gun-catching and limb-ripping in a way that the sticky-out Vive wands simply are not., Of course, the thing to know there is that, at the time of writing, you get Robo Recall for free if you buy the 100 Oculus Touch controllers, or 600 Rift+Touch bundle. If youve got a Rift but not the Touch, this is a strong, relatively substantial and ultra-polished freebie thatll make the cost of entry far more palatable. Though youll need to go right ahead and buy SUPERHOT separately afterwards. 

A few years ago, I probably would have forgiven Styx: Shards of Darkness [official site] a multitude of sins (and though there is not a multitude, there is one honking great sin). A proper stealth game that isnt low-rent or poorly balanced, with a choice of paths and abilities but which doesnt devolve into routine action  we didnt used to get too many of them. , Recent times have given us new Dishonoreds and Deus Exes and Metal Gear Solids and Hitmen, endless Assassins Creeds and even a so-so Thief, the game Styx most resembles. Hell, even the new Zelda game has a functional stealth element to it. We are spoilt for stealth choice, and that makes this fantasy wall-hugging sequel a tough sell. What its got on its side is purity. What it has against it is its lead character., , To get it out the way, no prior experience of the first Styx game is required to understand whats going on here. I have not played Cyanides 2014 game myself, and though there is a glossing over of the setup  a fantasy world in which goblins are an animalistic pest in the world of man, but one, Styx, is intelligent  there was nothing truly unclear. The little bastards a thief, goddit., Hes also a Thief, with Styxs core being based heavily on the Looking Glass stealth classic  navigate around a large area, stick to the shadows, climb over and around get the loot, get out, and if youre caught youre almost certainly dead. However, where Thief broadly keeps its fantasy low (i.e. trick arrows and and a tricksier eyeball), Styx spins off into a few more fantastical abilities. , , The foremost of these is the heightened mobility that being a beclawed munchkin affords him, so theres far more climbing and hanging involved here. Its nothing youve not seen in, say Assassins Creed, but theres a definitely a bit more hanging by your fingernails or swinging from convenient ropes than a Dishonored. , More singular is Styxs ability to vomit up a mindless clone of himself, which he/you can then direct to perform a few basic actions, such as distracting an enemy or knocking something onto them from a great height. Depending on what you pump your upgrade points into, this power can expand to include summoning cloney inside a mid-air cocoon or magically swapping places with him. In terms of opening up new ways to play whats otherwise quite a familiar game, this is your best option. , , Other tricks primarily relate to various consumables, from the obvious deadly dart to short-term invisibility potions to an acid solution that dissolves bodies on the spot. The skill trees big enough that one playthrough will only snag you a portion of its branches, and really thats the biggest draw here  flexibility in how you play, but always within the boundaries of a fairly pure stealth game. , While Dishonored, Deus Ex, MGSV and even Hitman to a very slight extent offer the option to be a mass murderer in broad daylight, in Styx you might survive one or two fights against a lone opponent, but generally speaking getting seen means becoming a greenskin rug. Which is to say, if you object to the presence of open combat options in your stealth games, youll probably get a lot out of Styx. This is a game about the art of not being seen, and not really one of madcap improv if you are. , , Escape is eminently possible thanks to Styxs mobility, and that leads to the age-old must have been rats reset after the murderous guards alert timers cool off, but running and hiding is pretty much your only option. Even then, the game so loudly declares that youve screwed the points bonus you get for a perfect run that the temptation to reload is overwhelming. Same goes for killing  although Styx has a whole upgrade path dedicated to silent assassination, you miss out on points for mercy if you avail yourself of your weapons. , Now, usually I gravitate towards non-lethal options in stealth games. I like the challenge of it, be it avoidance or the generally longer incapacitation sequences involved, and I like the idea that Im being Not A Bad Dude. The friends and family of a henchman, and all that. In Styx, however, absolutely everyone is so hateful that I simply do not give a shit. Kill em all. Theyre all shits. Its so much easier. Shame about those experience points, mind you., , Were shown a world in which most humans blindly murder goblinkind, and though Styx is the only one of them who can speak or, seemingly, think, this attitude stinks enough that I lose all my usual hesitation about bloodshed. What is mercy for here? , The flipside of this is that no-one in the game is more hateful than Styx himself. Perhaps some will lap up the banal venom of his humour, but for me its a significant misfire, to the point that I struggled to enjoy a game I otherwise would have done., I suspect the games creators believe that, in their fourth-wall breaking, wisecracking, sneering protagonist, theyve made Fantasy Deadpool. He chastises the player for their failings, he makes references to films and other games and pizza, he questions the likelihood that the person who bought this game will ever find a sexual partner, he insults the developers wisdom and talents. (Never do this in your game unless you are supremely confident your game is basically perfect, otherwise you are essentially telling the player that, yes, theyve just wasted their money). , , This kind of humour is playing with fire at the best of times, and Styx is very much not the best of times. The gags are incredibly broad and obvious, some of the terminology is simply insulting without being funny enough to get away with it (e.g. a womans weight is repeatedly mocked), many of the references are outdated and, to make matters worse, the wording often sounds like it ran through Google Translate a couple of times. , To his eternal credit, the guy who lends Styx his salty New Yoik tones is clearly a total pro, lending a certain amount of charisma to the character even though the actual words spoken are purely dreadful. I would buy that man a pint if I ever met him, and then clasp him into a sympathetic hug. Despite my sense that this was a good man in a bad situation, any time I died I found myself desperately hammering F9 in the hope I could quickload before the awful wisecrack-to-camera sequence that follows every death. And therein lies the rub  Styx would be an infinitely better game without Styx., , This is a decent stealth game saddled with wretched characterisation. Insult to injury is that it has all this sub-Deadpool bollocks while at the same time offering a deeply dour fantasy story that were supposed to take seriously. Once in a while, Styxs scoffing dismissal of all the magic wank is a blessed relief, but the trouble is that then the magic wank proceeds to wank on and on anyway. This is a game thats having its wank-cake and wanking it. , The stealth game underneath this miserable skin is solid. Often very flashy too, in its environments, range of powers and choice of routes, but undermining that sometimes severely is that its Assassins Creed-style jump from a ledge or wall to somewhere else system misfires frequently. , , Too often, I plunged to my death purely because Styx did not leap to the handhold he either either appeared to be reaching for or was the only logical place to go. Its not quite so unreliable as to make the game consistently frustrating, but something there is seriously in need of a fix. I learned to speculatively quicksave my way around it, which isnt ideal but was enough to let me keep thinking that this is a solid pure-breed stealth game., Personally, I prefer the option for improv more than I do fealty to pure hide-or-die stealth, but its clear that this has put the work into making its sneaking work. Though generally saddled with a muddy aesthetic, it makes a reasonable fist of varied environments and scattering optional, harder sub-goals across them. Itll keep you busy and, particularly if youre playing non-lethal, demands careful planning and thought. , , There isnt ever the magic puzzle-box feel of a Dishonored or the shocks of Thief in its bravura moments, but it mixes up its environments plenty. Theres plenty of the hmm, now how can I get into there? of a Splinter Cell or Deus Ex. , Clearly, a lot of money and skill has gone into making Shards Of Darkness, which only makes the fact that you have to battle past this woeful characterisation to get to the strong stealth meat below all the more tragic. Give me a mod that lets me turn off Styxs comments and Ill like it a whole lot more. Until then, Styx out of ten.

Ghost Recon Wildlands [official site] is Ubisofts latest open-world co-op narco war. I played some of it during the beta, along with Graham, and I came out of it feeling like a tub of old bath water. Lukewarm and slightly dirty. I only knew for certain that I actively disliked it when I was stricken down by one of its insta-fail stealth missions. Cast away from my carefully selected sniping spot on a sandy ridge because of a single stray bullet and dumped on the other side of the mission area, where I would have to repeat the cautious approach, the enemy spotting and the multiple silent kills all over again. It is 2017 and insta-fail stealth missions still exist. Why?, The answer of course is: Ubisoft. A publisher who have baked the same cake dozens of times but insists that they are following a new recipe because theyve changed the colour of the icing. In Wildlands, you are one of an elite squad of US soldiers who has come to Bolivia to save it from a pseudo-religious drug kingpin called El Sueo and his vast cartel. Theyve taken over the entire country and turned it into a narco state (I summarised this plot to a Bolivian friend, whose response was an emphatic what the fuck?). Anyway, you need to drive around the mountain roads and bumpy farmlands of the South American country, collecting intel that will lead to the killing or capture of buchons and underbosses. Get enough of these lower-level perps and the final mission to take on the big bossman becomes open to you., , The gimmick here is that you can take on the underbosses in whatever order you want. Zoom out from the map far enough and youre presented with a web of pictures and names, more of which get revealed with each piece of intel and each successful operation. And though it is true you can go about destablising this spiders web by whatever silky strands you want, the next jefe may be in an area of much higher difficulty  tougher guards, more enemies, alarms, tanks, and so on. In reality, this web doesnt add much to the game at all and is more for show  a method of keeping track. It isnt reactive in any way and although power struggles between bosses occur as part of individual plotlines the characters dont move around to fill power vacuums or fight amongst themselves in a dynamic way. Shadow of Mordor this certainly aint., , What it is is something youll have seen before. A Far Cry in third-person set in a real country and using a realistic crisis as the springboard. Four-player co-op has been heavily marketed as the main attraction. Sneak into a cocaine factory with your friends under cover of darkness, silently take down a few guards, grab the cook, retreat to the road and put the perp in the trunk, escape without anyone even knowing you were there. And if things do go wrong, its suppressors off  explosion time! One friend might be setting some C4 on a ground-to-air missile battery, to make the airspace clear for another friend piloting a helicopter, while the other two hold off a wave of gunmen as they await extraction. Its an exciting prospect and one that does occasionally come to pass. In those moments, I could see a glimmer of the game it could be. Mostly though, youll just be shooting heads and holding E over supply crates., , This is because it goes to supreme lengths to have you collect things, following Ubis icon plastered formula. You need to collect skill points to unlock new equipment or upgrade your current gadgets. You need to collect oil, technical parts, food and so on  which you also need to spend on unlocking skills. Youll collect gun parts, new weapons and intel that unlock story missions. Youll even collect intel that shows you were the other collectible things are. Ubi may have gotten rid of climb the tower, reveal the map but the spirit of the tower remains, physically invisible and yet always there. A checklist of housekeeping chores that youll need to perform between story missions to keep your character up to speed with the enemy. Only this time, theres four of you sweeping the floor and the pocket money you get in return is not very motivating. An extra grenade you say? Okay, thanks! A better battery for my drone? All right, I guess so., , Because of this, many of the surrounding firefights and car chases feel hollow and pointless. But the story here is also to blame. A part of me wants simply to say that it is a stupid tire fire of a storyline and talk no more about it. But the profundity of its naffness is so compelling that I am forced to stare and type into the abyss., A big problem (putting aside the hackneyed bro-banter dialogue and soulless, dull characters) is the setting and the conceit. As Ive said before, I have no issue with games tackling the problems of the real world, or occupying the countries of the real world, so long as they tackle any such problem with deftness and candour, so long as they portray any such country with depth, if not honesty. Wildlands doesnt get half way to achieving this. When the government of Bolivia recently complained about the countrys depiction in this latest Clancyromp, Ubisoft responded by insisting that they had recreated much of the countrys geographical and cultural splendour. And to be fair, that does sometimes feel true  you can see it in the flamingoes circling the lakes, the llamas that spit at you from the side of the road, the children in traditional dress eating ice cream and dancing in the dusty calles. This world is huge and a thought should be spared for all those who painstakingly mapped it. All those details along with the sheer scale of the world map created a land which often made me stop doing my checklist chores and shout to my team mates: look at that!, , But then the creators also filled those same calles with hordes of narcoterrorists and their helpless victims, strung up on makeshift gallows, corpses torn into parts, burned to cinders, or left in lazy disarray after an ad hoc massacre. Ubisoft cant fairly say that just because the landscape is true to form, with snowy peaks and stony hills, that they have created a tasteful Bolivia, full of respect and admiration for the country of reality. There are spines at the side of the road., , What Ubi really want here is to have their quinceaera cake and to eat it. To fill their game with wise-looking women in traditional dress shovelling hay come rain or shine, but also to have their over-the-top ridiculous action game as well. They are welcome to try this, of course. Contrast is a great atmospheric technique and such a project definitely could be achieved with a little thoughtfulness and characterisation. But theres none of that here. The end result is a half-game, determined to provide you with a realistic enemy from a contemporary crisis yet too afraid to say anything of political significance about that crisis, apart from the static US government platitude: these narcos are some bad hombres, eh? The lead soldierman of Wildlands, for example, is a customisable drawler called Nomad who has achieved with gusto what has long been the goal of the jingoistic shooter  to give the audience an avatar with enough tough guy blandness through whom they can freely channel all the heroism and notoriety of Chris Kyle with absolutely none of the trauma or disgrace. He is one-dimensional, if he has any dimensions at all. Thank god you can change his appearance., , But this is an action game, you say, Ubi are constrained by both the genre and the large TOM CLANCYS plastered over the top of it. And yet no such fetters stopped The Division from combining a real location with a ludicrous international emergency. It still had bland characters and rubbish voice acting and grinding collectionism but there were at least some things about the world to admire beyond the physical depiction of a rotten and frozen New York. The point is that even by the standards of dumb action this lacks the most essential element of that genre: self-awareness., Im not really asking for manshoots to always be set in wacky fake countries, or set in real locales distorted with bizarro alternate realities. Again, a real place and a real crisis is fine. But crucially, the portrayal here is not interesting. It is trite, peppered with eye-rolling amounts of we got company, saddled with antagonists who sometimes try to be more than a single over-arching criminal Latino stereotype but in the end are always depicted as such: violent, unhinged, ultimately cowardly when faced down by a gringo with a gun., , All this and I still have not mentioned how broken it is. There are bugs lurking in every corner, waiting to bite you on the ankles, like vicious bullet ants. Im not just talking about performance issues some of which, for me, were simply the result of a graphics card too long in the tooth (Im slumming it with a GeForce GTX 750 Ti  thats why all my textures look like muddy water, sorry) but many of which were simply native to the game. Heres some fun ones., , , , This last bug could be interpreted as a rare example of the AIs skill, since they were more often floundering in useless positions, telling me about food trucks I had already captured, or shouting loud warnings about helicopters that had blown up thirty seconds previously and which were no longer a threat. Sometimes my AI mates liked to become frozen on the spot where they would ignore all commands to regroup or change place. Sometimes they liked to commit to lines of dialogue that were bizarrely irrelevant. The radio antenna is taking damage! they shouted, as we snuck around an insta-fail stealth area, miles from the nearest radio antenna., All this and more reveals Wildlands to be a shooter that has been released messy and unfinished, a practice that Ubi is doing with increased proficiency with each passing game, seemingly using their beta tests as demos and marketing opportunities instead of using them to actually test and repair their game to an acceptable level., Despite all my complaints, the rallying cry for its defenders will always be: its improved with three friends. And although this is true, what lacklustre manshoot wouldnt be improved with your mate Tom in the place of a broken AI? If a sandbox shooter demands a basic level of human closeness to make it in any way enjoyable, this raises the question: is the game itself good, or do you just like humans? I like humans and I did notice a huge improvement when playing with friends., , Likewise, shooting drugmen alongside random folks via the in-game matchmaking made for some unexpected silliness. I was at my happiest when playing chauffeur in a helicopter to three strangers and ignoring everything else. My squadmates would mark a spot on the map where they wanted to pick up a new weapon/perform a massacre and I would fly them there, drop them off, then take off again and circle around until they needed to be picked up again. I felt like I was inhabiting a role here, the steadfast pilot that the team just cant operate without, and it felt good that the other players silently accepted this as my role and always allowed me to fly before anyone else., , In other words, Im sure if you have the three pals and a determination to make small roles for yourselves (Let me drive!  Okay, Ill snipe from the hill  And Ill be the spotter) youll find that nugget of enjoyability that the game is selling itself on. The lark of pretending youre all competent and likeable human beings. But I guarantee that before long it will become clear to you whats really going on below the surface level of shooting Latinos in the head  you are all simply doing a checklist together in an open world with none of the madness of the Far Cry series, and certainly none of the inventiveness of MGSV, a game which already perfected the genre of open-world political interference a whole year and a half ago. Imagine if that game had co-op. Herein lies the fatal flaw  previous Far Crys introduced your own friends for extraneous chaos. Wildlands uses your own friends as a crutch., , After years of seeing the same thing, it has become clear that Ubi games cannot function on the strength of their formula alone. And they certainly cant rely on the strength of your mate Greg. They need some hook and less bait. At the very least they need decent story-telling or likeable characters. However, the principal problem that will forever plague this developer is that the transparency and rigidity of their formula will always hinder them. You can always see it skulking over the surface of the game, like a man in stars and stripes facepaint trying to sneak into a cocaine warehouse. It has been detected: insta-fail.

I suspect that everyone who makes games wishes theyd made Spelunky. Effectively perfect game design, unconstrained by the heavy flab of spectacle. Loot Rascals [official site] takes that games random generation, escalating challenge, extreme balancing, minimal explaining and daily runs and applies it all to a slick, playful roguelite and collectable card game hybrid. Then slathers gloriously weird creature design all over it.
, Aesthetically and tonally, it puts me a little in mind of the Katamari games  that point where what would, in the wrong hands, be mere random wackiness tilts successfully into surreal joy. Weirdo creatures, order-givers who straddle the line between chummy and malevolent and, rather than a king in tight tights, we get a laconic Scottish astronaut with a babys face and a space-teapot on his head. This is a delightfully-presented game, and though many of its sights and sounds are entirely arbitrary, it always stops short of annoying. Folk from the likes of Adventure Time, Hohokum and Alphabear contributed to development, and boy does that collective expertise and ingenuity show., , Heres the deal. Youre a spaceperson yourself, traipsing across various planetary landscapes divided into hexes and patrolled by the titular Rascals, whom you must clobber or be clobbered by. Combat is turn-based and activates whenever you share a space with an evil egg, a girl who shouts bolus, a clanky robot, a three-eyed Chewbacca or whatever wonderful oddity youve bumped into. , By and large, victory is decided by having sufficient attack power and defence power, and this is determined by the cards you have equipped. Blue ones add to your defence points, orange ones add to your offence, and any one may have bonus abilities that confer extra points to other cards, depending on where exactly you place them., , Card placement is half the game here  the maths of working out what arrangement maxes out your stats, and making painful decisions about what cards to bench because they dont take advantage of some other bonus. Number goes up, number goes down, wait a minute, number goes WAY up. The combinations are impeccably well-balanced, with cards often having fiendish negative effects such as -2 if its in on the bottom row or docking a point from every card of the same type. , Basically, what this means is that youre constantly swapping stuff out, not sitting pretty with The One True Deck, and unlike a Diablolike, a new card can have a dramatic rather than subtle effect on your numbers. If there was a way to sit there with an infinite deck of cards, endlessly fiddling in pursuit of the biggest number possible, I fear I would lose a whole day to it. , , Winning a fight might randomly drop a new card, and its this which is the main spur to head off into dangerous territories, further and further flung from the small dome that acts as your base. Loot! But, Rascals! As far as I can tell, the Rascals are to some extent entirely randomly-generated in threat as well as type, but it does seem as though youre more likely to run into beefier ones if your own stats are fairly high. , The true terror of death is that you lose all your cards if you lose a fight. Youll resurrect (unless youre playing the one shot and done daily challenge mode) but youll be puny; though the initial monsters youll then encounter are puny too, goddamn but youll miss those beautiful cards you had a minute ago. A few minutes later, of course, all you care about is the new cards in your hand now. , Its one of those games where death happens fast if you dont exercise due diligence. You only have five hitpoints (though some cards can temporarily increase this) and its more than possible to lose all of these in the space of one fight. Including against embarrassingly weak foes. Avoiding this means watching the numbers carefully, and keeping a close eye on Loot Rascals other key mechanic, which is that it flips from day to night and back again every half-dozen turns. , , Some monsters get to attack first at night, others in the day, and attacking first is what this game is really all about. If your attacks high enough you can often take out an enemy in one hit, while facing the occasional random miniboss (also randomly-named, as in Diablo) is no longer a guaranteed death sentence. , Im aware Ive spent most of this piece describing mechanics rather than offering opinions as such, and this is because thats what Loot Rascals is underneath its gonzo, capering skin  a game of mechanics. Easy to learn, difficult to master mechanics, which you can never take your eye off. That it feels entirely like its own true-blue videogame and not like an adaptation of a CCG is testament to how cleanly all its many moving parts slots together. This is such a slick wee thing. , , Theres another neat feature somehow squeezed into this Jenga tower of ingenuity, whereby baddies rob a card from you if they beat you, and other players may then find that card by defeating bosses in their own games. And you, of course, might find their lost treasures, at which point you can decide whether to send it back to them or keep it. This has only happened to me a couple of times  I think the playerbase needs time to build up  but apparently this can result in rewards or payback, which I have not yet experienced. Probably because I die too quick. A lovely idea and one that, I suspect, will make more difference the more you invest in this. , Even so, I did feel as though Id seen all the game was fairly early on  that it would be a matter of finessing my skills far more than it would be a voyage of discovery. While thats true of Spelunky too, it did hook new players on the mystery of what might lie ahead, the increasing weirdness and menace of later areas, before, for some of us, becoming a ritual test of skill. See also The Binding Of Isaac, which this also has a few commonalities with. , , Theres a loose, comic story about rebuilding a big robot wrapped around the thing, but really it immediately becomes about endlessly bettering yourself. Leaderboards and daily challenges and all that jazz  long-term investment. Catnip for many people, but I dont know that it got its hooks in deep enough to trigger that impulse in me. , Though Loot Rascals has been deeply charming for a couple of days, I cant see myself returning to it over and over in that way. That said, the daily challenges do save it from an otherwise open-ended feel  each new area reached or mega-card found feels that much more momentous when death is absolute, rather than an inconvenience. , Funny, strange, sweet, accessible, as intricate as a Gordian knot with it. Loot Rascals is a smart piece of game design executed with delightful style. Even so, it feels as though the mechanics overwhelm all else  I do think it would benefit from offering more structure and goals in order to then earn the daily-play status it clearly desires.

Every Monday we order Brendan to examine the early access entrails for signs of coming chaos. This week, the guts tell of a magical and old-fashioned RPG called For The King [official site] with strange rougelike properties
, Death comes easily to the intrepid hex explorer. If youre lucky, youll just get a quick bandit axe in the forehead. But if youre like me, only the most scurrilous death will do. In a poison bog surrounded by old swamp hags, for example. Or deep underground at the hands of deranged cultists and their bat minions. These are just some of the ways you can (will) die in For The King, a shiny and modern-looking RPG that nevertheless retains a good and ancient heart. And by that I mean it has absolutely no qualms about murdering you.
, Its old-fashioned for a number of reasons. The battles are turn-based 3v3 jab-fests and its all centered on travels across a hex-based map. You pick three party members at the start, whose classes you can choose and appearance you can stylise to a very limited degree. The blacksmith has a smashy hammer and can stun enemies, for instance. The hunter has a bow and a bonus against flying perps like bats, as well as being better at sneaking on the world map (more on this later)., I began my first and ill-fated misadventure with one of these hunters, to whom I granted a white beard and the name Old Lars. He was accompanied by a Minstrel called Sally McWrecker, who damaged her enemies by playing pleasant music at them, and a Scholar named Mr Paulson, who attacked things by reading from a book I can only presume was so boring it physically hurt anyone who listened., , Theres a mandatory plotline involving the Kings recent assassination and the Queens attempts to discover the truth. Off you go to wherever she sends you along this questline, where you discover that the game is really a race against a force called Chaos. This increases with every passing day, adding skulls to a little Chaos meter above the map. They also seemed to pop up when party members died, though its hard to say if that was the cause or just coincidence. The exact pattern and reasons for the advance of human headbones isnt very well explained. Nevertheless, the skulls can be set back by completing the Queens questlines, making it feel like an XCOM-style race against encroaching bad things. Higher levels of Chaos cause weird things to come and hinder your progress. After a few skulls were added to the map a hangman began to haunt my heroes, who became assaulted by surprise ghosts wherever they walked., , To complicate things, there is also a day and night cycle, with more dangerous and numerous enemies popping up when the sun goes down. You move around the map turn by turn, each party member moving independently. If one of your little reprobates gets into a disagreement with a giant bee or dancing imp, the others will only join if they are in range of the fight  generally speaking, this means within two or three hexes. But the same applies to nearby foes. Theyll come to the bees aid if they live within the blood-red range of hexes of their own pal. As far as I experienced it though, you cant fight more than three baddies at a time. Youll know which enemies are coming to help your arch-nemesis, the bee, by their appearance on the map  blacked out and inactive means they arent coming to the fight. Highlighted and coloured means they are coming to bust your head., , But when the daytime rolls around, the skeletons and ghosts and witches evaporate (mostly) and you get more room to manoeuvre. Its possible to sneak by enemies completely, or ambush them, which means their pals wont come calling even if they are in range. But this relies on the roll of unseen dice. These dice are more or less the gooey centre of the entire game. Choices and percentages litter both the world map and the battle screen. Your chance to hit anything is determined by luck, which can be stacked in your favour in various ways (equipment, stat boosts, herbs, hats) and your chance to sneak past a beastman or ambush an ogre is likewise affected by this., However, to keep your characters from being too far out of your own control, theres a focus system. You can right click on any choice or attack to add a point of focus and increase the chance of succeeding. Each character has their own pool of these focus points and you can recharge them by sleeping in inns, setting up a camp, eating special herbs, or levelling up at a super-convenient time. Theres still a sense of risk and reward here, because although adding focus to an attempt to shoot a cultist with an arrow will increase the chance of landing a good and strong hit, it doesnt guarantee anything unless you sink all your focus points into that task  a decision best kept for when success is absolutely necessary., , The whole game hinges on this mechanic and quickly becomes a quest about using your focus points wisely, saving them for a critical moment or making it rain like a rich gangster when you know theres a town just a few hexes away for replenishment. Then, of course, you reach the town and discover that you dont have enough money to let everyone sleep in the inn., This is the other side of the RPG coming into play. There are a lot of places to visit  caves to explore, camps to raid, catacombs to graverob, towns to go shopping in  and a lot of enemies to fight. But there is precious little time and precious little money. You are often scraping the bottom of your purse to afford one good thing  a new staff for your scholar, a single suit of armour for your blacksmith, a teleport scroll so that your hunter can catch up with the others on the map before night falls and he gets cut off by a gang of mardy skeletons. Im always pleased when a game has the courage to put you in a rich world as a poor person. Decisions on what to buy or where to go feel important and lasting because of this. Buying a ship might get you to the next quest location in record time, but its so expensive it will leave you all stoney broke for the next day or two., , As for the time constraints, Ill give you an example. In my first game, I took on an extra quest in our hometown. All we needed to do, it said, was deliver a leather pouch with some unknown contents to a nearby town in the outskirts of the local swamp. Easy. But no road is empty in For The King. Or rather, there are no roads. Just a wilderness full of irksome bats and huge stone hulks. We finally did reach the town but because of the time it had taken us night had already fallen, which made all the backtracking to take on our original (more important) quest all the more difficult. By the time we reached the first chaos generator in the final dungeon of the first quest, we were at 3 out of 5 Chaos kulls, which was, I felt, cutting it pretty close., , That sense of scrounging and under-epuipped-ness is pleasing to any thoroughbred adventurer/hapless victim. Here, things are made even more difficult by the party system, or the lack thereof. You move each hero individually, they all have their own purse of money and their own inventory bags. Only when theyre near each other can they swap gold or items. The game also randomises (to a degree) how much each hero can travel during their turn, some able to move farther than others, leading to surprise fights in which your people are split up and have to fend for themselves., Even the battle mechanics prioritise individual actions over the actions of a sensible party. One day on our adventures, Sally McWrecker and Mr Paulson found themselves facing down some bats without the help of their archer pal, because he was lagging behind a few hexes. This normally wouldnt be a problem, except the bats had a huge golem friend who came to join the fight. He had 38 health and his punches could deal huge damage to my scruffy pair of low-level vagabonds. Seeing that the fight was not going in our favour, I clicked on the flee option during Sallys turn, which if successful would send us one hex back and end the turn but leave us in safety. At least, that is what I gleaned from the hovering tooltip., , What really happened was this: Sally McWrecker rolled a successful flee action and slunk away from the fight with a pathetic wave, leaving Mr Paulson, by far the weakest and most vulnerable of the trio, totally alone, whereupon he was succinctly punched to death by a living rock., , Luckily, you can revive a character just by visiting the hex their corpse is on (the enemies take a walk after a lost fight) and picking them up. Whereas a true game over will come down upon your heads if your entire party dies in the battle screen. In the open map this is less likely, but in the trap-filled, multi-fight, mulit-layered dungeons it is much more likely, since you dont get the reward or complete the relevant quest unless you buck up and see it through to the end., Here you have to fight wave after wave of enemies, but each one offers good loot and often drops herbs that can be used to heal or regain lost focus points between the dungeons rooms. But these dungeons are still not easy, as Old Lars will tell you after he got entangled by a cursed witch and was forced to watch his friends die before he too was helplessly stabbed to pieces by an unfettered bone warrior., , In short, it isnt a pleasant walk through Pallet town. The limitations on your party  the scrubby equipment they find or can afford, their walking speed, their lack of healing items or gold coin  all serve to make it a solid romp full of those tiny decisions and random occurrences that can alter the course of your game for better or worse., There is one big problem I feel, in that the main quest is the same at every restart. The map is newly generated each time, yes, but the quest from the Queen always stays the same. After a while I just wanted to explore the world at my own pace for once. There are many towns you wont even think of visiting, because they arent on the Queens pre-ordained list of stopovers, or even placed along the way., , This main quest itself is also blurby fantasy pish, without an ounce of humour or character. This is something that surprised me, considering the visual style of the game is so cute and cartoony, perfectly suited to a sillier story and characters who dont take their existence as undead skeleton warriors too seriously. Unfortunately, the humour and cheer has to be found between your own rash or botched decisions and the bad luck of your three poverty-stricken losers, or in the daft over-the-top ragdoll deaths of your victims. That humour is there, certainly. The sight of Sally skulking away like a coward during that one fight was enough to make me laugh anyway. But I still feel like the creators are missing an easy window to keep things short-winded and free of dull fantasy mumbo-jumbo. One of the first things you see after starting a new game is a wall of lore-filled text about the Kingdom and the Queen and the Chaos and YAWN YAWN YAWN., , Putting those concerns aside, however, For The King retains a good sense of pacing and toughness. Even the easy mode can slip you up and bash you on the noggin with a gang of wretched sea hags for which you are sorely under-prepared. It feels at times like an old-fashioned turn-based party JRPG that has learned to fight like a roguelike, embracing randomness and strange loot. During one dungeon crawl, Sally McWrecker was only equipped with a shield. One of her options in the fight was to pull out a random weapon from her backpack. She did this and whipped out a glass sword I had received from doing that time-consuming delivery job. Id forgotten about this weapon. It cut massive chunks of health off the enemies. I was very happy. If I had only read the items description more thoroughly, I would not have been so surprised when the sword shattered to pieces after one final blow against an unworthy skeleton, who himself shattered to pieces, probably laughing. Sally was again reduced to punching her enemies in the belly with her bare hands., Its silly moments like that which harbour the magic of For The King. As ever, early access means things may change, and I certainly hope that there comes some mode in which the Queens orders and main quests can be thoroughly ignored. But for now, if youre seeking some badly-planned misadventure, and a scurrilous death, you could do a lot worse.

A few days before Christmas, I was involved in a car accident. No-one was seriously hurt, but I spent 90 minutes stood alone on a central reservation, shaking from both cold and shock, watching car after car after car nearly collide with my own wrecked and dangerously stranded vehicle, waiting for police who never came. I called twice. Both times I was told theyd be right there. They did not show (FYI roadside recovery did eventually, an hour after their ETA). I was as furious as I was terrified., 15 minutes with 911 Operator [official site] was all it took to entirely sympathise with why they didnt send a car out. , The rule here is if nobodys dying, theres no hurry. Squad cars, ambulances and fire engines  the holy rescue trinity in this emergency services strategy game  are forever at a premium. Dispatch one to help resolve a situation that is, at the time of a call, bloodless and theres every chance youll find you cant send anyone to help an even more serious situation. Or its simply that all your cars are on other, non-lethal calls, so whichever unforunate just dialled up simply has to wait. , , Maybe all the police in Dartford were in a stand-off with armed criminals when I called. Maybe there was a particularly high number of disputes about trees growing into neighbours yards. Maybe my story just didnt meet the operators criteria for calamity. I mean, no-one did get hurt in the end. They made their judgement calls. Perhaps they were right. , But they could have been wrong, as I have been several times in 911 Operator. I told someone who asked for a pizza to stop wasting my time, failing to twig that they were pretending to the other, violent person in the room with them that this was the purpose of their call. They ended up in hospital. The next day, I was slightly more inquisitive about but ultimately again dismissive of a womans complaint about how loud her neighbours TV was, and only later did I find out it was because the man had died in his own living room. , , Judgement calls. 911 Operator is all about judgement calls. Its a quiet revelation about scenarios I imagine most of us have suspected but never fully thought about. The other revelation is that initial panic and guilt about these kinds of situations soon gives way to cold utilitarianism. My thoughts shifted away from I have to help this person or what if theres more to this than meets the eye? and into well, nothing is obviously wrong, so I just cant justify the units, and increasingly I felt no remorse if an initially shrug-worthy situation had awful consequences. , If Id have sent someone out there speculatively, I wouldnt have been able to stop the sexual assault on the other side of town. I wouldnt have been able to put out that fire in a parking garage. , 911 Operator succeeds more as thought experiment about this constant dilemma for emergency service workers than it does a game. As a game, its the same looped five minute experience, with varying degrees of pressure to it. You sit in front of a map of the city youre playing in, choosing which emergencies to assign which vehicles to, interspersed with phone calls in which you need to elicit appropriate information  severity, location, possible escalations, if its a total idiot  in order to make your judgement call. , Some situations require multiple vehicles, some situations escalate even after youve arrived  your police need backup because someone starts shooting, or someones injured because you couldnt get to them in less than a heartbeat  and some situations have to be abandoned because something more terrible has occurred elsewhere. , , Mostly, though, youre just right-clicking to send a police car, ambulance or fire engine to a point on the map, and hoping nothing else goes wrong while you wait for them to get there. Its compelling in small doses, but only a few hours in Id taken its point to heart and struggled to see what else I might take from it. Its definitely effective at creating tension, which I admire, but that tension grows increasingly one-note., Theres a meta-game that entails efficient, well-judged decisions gradually earning enough money to purchase more and better vehicles and ancillary equipment. Perhaps theres commentary here about ruthless government/state restrictions on police budgets, but in a game context it came across like artificial gating. Thisd be easy if I had a fleet of helicopters, but to get that I have to grind. , , The other big selling point here is that, as well as playing in a campaign mode that darts between various US cities, you can freeplay in any city from anywhere in the world, and a fair few small towns too. Unfortunately youre stuck with US voices, equipment and terminology wherever you plump for  and indeed crimes. I can assure you that the only shootings in Pershore, Worcestershire involve poor wildfowl. , Localisation seems like the most obvious and necessary addition 911 needs to add in, if its current Steam sales hot streak lasts long enough. The other is that, though its briefly pleasing to see the more or less recognisable monochrome outline of my home city, you cant zoom in to see street names or photographic imagery, so it might as well be anywhere. , The what about [pissant small town you grew up in] is a one-off delight that lasts only moments, but I can definitely see how this thing could evolve. That said, some of the crimes it features are horrific, and as such becoming too playful might become deeply inappropriate., , Its a couple of evenings worth of exploring a concept and buying a few upgrades for under a tenner. I dont not recommend it on that basis  the single greatest thing about PC gaming is that its a medium which will explore every niche, and I was glad for a brief nose at this one. It is a bit crashy in its current form through, and that paired with the feeling that it needs a little more meat on its bones makes me more inclined to suggest waiting a month or two.

For a while there, back in 2014, we were rather excited to see Four Sided Fantasy [official site]. Then things went quiet. And then, er, the game came out last August. Oops. So why now? Well, I was looking up Four Last Things, the bonkers (and a bit annoying, honestly) Renaissance painting adventure, and clicked the wrong button. Yeah. Welcome to RPS., Crikey, Four Sided Fantasy is rather good. Its not too late to tell you., OK, look, Ill be even more honest. Im more motivated to post about this right now because of the twitching horror inside me at typing out the games name without the bloody hyphen it should have. Four-Sided. FOUR-SIDED. Oh my goodness., That aside, and believe me Im going to be writing it correctly from now on, this is a really smart reality-warping puzzle platformer that merits our attention., Although that attention is best kept if you ignore its puke-inducing bullshit conceit. For some godforsaken reason this is about trying to reunite a boy and a girl who are trying to find each other, but separated by an inability to share the same portion of reality. Oh, if only these two blank-faced anonymous cartoons could be together, I could sleep at night again! All that matters now is their love, because the games description said it was so! Bleaurgh. Honestly, itd have been so much better if this featured a cartoon bear and chicken alternating in the space. I care about bears and chickens getting to hang out., , The premise (yes, we got there!) is this: Your character runs about in the standard side-scrolling platform way, fixed to the centre of the screen as the world moves around them. But at any point you can freeze the screen, and move the character around it. And if that freezed screen has open exits both left and right, or up and down, you can go off one side of the screen and come back on the other., This leads to an immediate wealth of lovely puzzles. At their most basic, say youre running along the open ground and then a giant pillar of rock blocks your path, freeze the screen, run to the far left, and appear on the far right the other side of the pillar. Of course, this is by far not the first game to use that mechanic, but its the first I can think of (yes, yes, the Spanish-only Mega CD game you know about did it too) where its your freezing the action that creates the borders. And this leads to much more elaborate challenges, where youre leaping toward an abyss, but up enough that the dangerous area goes off the bottom of the screen, and instead you fall down through to the top of the screen where you can angle right to land on a moving platform. Maybe line the screen up just right so walking left and right has you fall down through gaps in what would otherwise be impassable floors of rock below you. Or even something as simple (but unintuitive) as freezing the screen above a long stretch of deadly static, but with rock blocking the top, and then just walking along the bottom of the screen!, The further you get, the more it asks you to think, and the more complicated the moves become as you bend time and space to your will. And at no point does it become meaningful or relevant that every time you pass a boundary and reappear, you change from boy to girl to boy to girl again. Honestly, it would have been fine if you were just one character the whole time. Its silly. Stop it., , The art is pretty lovely, simple but effective, and I really like the design of the two characters. The games big imperfection, however, comes with the jumping. Its not significantly bad, but it feels just slightly off, just not quite right as you drift. I think its something to do with the analogue controller sticks, the game over-sensitive and trying to walk instead of run at key moments. Playing both Hollow Knight and Shovel Knight this week too has made the issue more apparent, emphasising the difference between when it feels right, and when it feels wrong. Those two games handle the motion of jumping very differently, but each feels just right for its context. This one, it feels like youre not quite getting the movement you ought. Not a game-breaker by a long stretch, but a little grumbly., The other really odd aspect is the scenery changing. Early on you run down long corridors of rock or grass to get to newer areas, but then after a while theres a point where as you run right, the screen goes black for a bit, and then PING, youre somewhere else with no explanation or transition. It feels incredibly half-finished in these moments, and its hard to believe it was ever the intention to have the game just suddenly and jarringly stop, then carry on in a different location like nothing happened., , But then it adds new surprises. Imagine a typical platforming scenario, a long narrow corridor with a blast of something-me-do hurtling down every few seconds. Youve got to make your progress in the gaps, right? But what happens if you freeze the screen and those blasts keep on coming in? You end up with those going out of the left side of the screen coming back in the right, along with new ones, until youre bombarded with the things. Not helpful, but what if you could figure out a way to have them pile up somewhere else by these means? Or what about when each of the two characters are affected by gravity differently, so going out of the screen and on again flips the direction in which you fall?, It all works really rather well, and is accompanied by a very pleasing ambient soundtrack, along with nature noises chirping and squawking over the Eno-esque keyboardy tones. And it gets rewardingly difficult, without feeling unfair, or relying on ninja reflexes. (Clearly I have them, but theyre left in their box here.), This is well worth a look, and a good scratch of the head.

Consider this a slight tangent from my ongoing quest to decide which gaming laptop to buy by reviewing a bunch of them. The Razer Blade Stealth is not a gaming laptop, despite coming from a company most known for aggressively gamer-orientated technology. Its an ultrabook, which is to say very thin and light, which means no discrete graphics card and a low-power processor. The Macbook Air would be the most obvious point of comparison. , The situation changes when its hooked up to a speaker-sized black metal box known officially as the Razer Core. This is an external graphics card enclosure, which, with a single cable connected to a port on its outside edge, enables the Stealth to run a desktop GPU. Too good to be true? As it happens, no., Note  the bulk of this piece covers the Razer Core eGPU, so in order to give the Stealth laptop a fair shake without this piece becoming too unwieldy, that gets its own review, specs breakdown and whatnot on page 2 here. , Barring some miracle in miniaturisation, desktop PCs are always going to have an edge over portables when it comes to performance, and even more of an advantage when it comes to upgradeability. However, the Core  and with it the wider concept of eGPUs, of which there are other models available  has me convinced that, at some point within the next few years, were going to see a significant shift in the gaming PC model. , I dont want two PCs, one for home and one for the road. It might be luxurious but its not terribly practical. I want one PC, with all my stuff on it, that I can use anywhere. I want a laptop that I dock into something that adds a full-fat graphics card, a big external monitor, keyboard and maybe an extra hard drive or two. , The Stealth+Core combo doesnt quite realise that dream, for reasons Ill get into shortly, but it comes damned close. Close enough that I believe this dream will become real surprisingly soon., A Thunderbolt 3 port, yesterday., The key to this is the multi-purpose port known as Thunderbolt 3. Think of it as a super-fast successor to USB, able to transfer vast amounts of data incredibly quickly, and, in the case of the Stealth, even enough power to recharge the battery at the same time. This one port to rule them all model has lately been popularised by Apple, but were only going to see more of it on PC laptops too., Sure, crazy-fast external hard drive transfer speeds are nice to have, but my key interest in Thunderbolt 3 is that its bandwidth is sufficient to hook up a high-end desktop graphics card. Now, this whole tech  and the Core is only one of a growing number of eGPU boxes  is still shaking out, and Ive struggled to find definitive answers on just where the ceiling lies. , What can cope with todays graphics cards may find that the bandwidth demands of, say, a 2019 GPU are just too great. Cables and plugs also introduce potential latency issues that arent in play for the more direct PCB connection of a PCI-Express slot. But, yes, in theory right now you could drop, say, a GTX 1080 into an eGPU and be getting at least similar results to what youd get if the card was inside a desktop PC., , Sadly, I didnt have a 1080 to hand for testing  the best I had was a Radeon RX 480, a 200ish that, at the time of writing, is pretty much the best bang-for-buck going in terms of playing games at 1080p and high settings. Pertinently, it is also sufficient to get the Witcher 3 running at 4K and 30 frames per second on the Razer Stealths spectacularly vibrant 12.5 touchscreen (a cheaper, non-touch 1440p model is also available). , This is a surreal sight. The Stealth is a tiny, thin, beautiful thing  the very opposite of what we would traditionally consider to be a gaming laptop. Seeing a game looking as good as any current game could possibly look on a machine like this is bonkers. Well, at least until you stop pretending that the plus-size, loudly-whirring obsidian shoebox just to one side of it isnt there. , The Core is a big bunny, theres no getting around it. While you might expect something not much bigger than a graphics card, the reality is that it has to contain a dedicated power supply too, and allow sufficient space that the card doesnt overheat. The entirely ignorant armchair designer in me does feel that the Core could surely be 10 or 20% without smaller and that perhaps its one-big-heatsink style is more about showing off than mere practicality, but I could well be wrong there. , , Its not a monster, and certainly a heckuva lot smaller than having a desktop PC. Push all thoughts of stowing it under your desk and out of sight out of your mind though, as the Thunderbolt 3 is necessarily half a metre short  much longer than that and its bandwidth would halve from 40Gbps to 20Gbps, with potentially enormous framerate consequences. Tech for cables that maintain full speed at greater distances is in development, but right now youre saddled with having to sit the Core effectively right next to the laptop. Not a great look for your desk, and means youre sat right next to the GPU and its invariably noisy fan too. , Sweetening the pill a little is that, all via the one Thunderbolt 3 connection to the Stealth, the Core has four USB 3 ports and an ethernet socket on its rear, so it really can work like a dock to transform laptop &gt; desktop. It even passes through power to the Stealth, so you dont need a second cable coming out of the laptop. With the Core connected to my big monitor too, this was a little bit of Nintendo Switch at PC home  one plug was all it took to flick between modes. , The software side of things is surprisingly straightforward. Essentially, on first connect you tell the laptop what it wants to do whenever its connected to the Core, and everything happens automatically from thereon in  including adapting to whether you have an external monitor connected or not., , Speaking of which, expect diminished performance if youre using the Core to play games on the laptops own screen instead of a secondary one. This is because image data has to be pushed back to the machine along the Thunderbolt connection at effectively the same time as the laptop feeding instructions to the graphics card. Two cars driving in opposite directions along the same narrow road. , In practice, the consequences of this will differ depending on the demands of the game, but in my testing with the Witcher 3, Deus Ex: Mankind Divided and Resident Evil 7, I was generally seeing a handicap of about 10 frames per seconds. In most cases I could ameliorate this sufficiently by dropping a few settings  as I say, I managed to get Witcher 3 running at 4K on the laptops own screen at 30 FPS with decent settings  but as games grow more demanding and graphics cards more powerful, this may become more of an issue. My point being that the Core, and other enclosures like it, may not be the I dont need to upgrade my laptop for years solution it sometimes promises to be., Especially on an external monitor, though, I was deeply impressed by how well games ran. The 480 is some distance south of a top-end GPU, but in most cases its up to 1080p, high settings and 60 frames, and that was borne out via the Core. What I did find, however, is that the Stealth/Core 480 combo did not run quite as well at my monitors native 34401440 as did the 480 when fitted inside my desktop PC. This varied from 5 to 20 frames per second depending on game and depending on scene within that game. Not disastrous at all in some cases, but the difference between 60fps and 30fps (if you do Vsync) in others. , , This may be down to some Thunderbolt 3 ceiling being hit (Ive tried and failed to find definitive answers about its eGPU limitations, but look forwards to being put in my place in comments), or it may be because the Stealth has a dual-core, low power CPU in an age when games often benefit from quad core. Its a seventh generation Intel Core chip (aka Kaby Lake) but its by no means the equal of the 7700HQ we saw in the Alienware 15 review last week. , To assess this I was also loaned a Razer Blade, a bigger, heavier 14 machine which Ill write about in its own review another time, and which contained a faster, quad-core chip. The drop-off lessened and performance was more in line with what I saw on my desktop (which is to say not to expect 60fps at 34401440 on this card without dropping quite a few settings), but the difference wasnt as stark as expected. I say that positively rather than negatively, as more than anything Im surprised by how well the Stealths weeny CPU coped. 4K Witcher 3 and DXMD (albeit 30 fps, which can primarily be blamed on the GPU anyway)! , Im sure there will be more CPU-limited games for which this is much more problematic, but given the relatively minor effects on my trio of recent mainstream titles, its food for thought about how much a CPU upgrade can meaningfully benefit games right now. , I suspect a quad-core Stealth coupled with a Core containing, say, a GTX 1070 would be something of a dream machine. The thinnlight go-anywhere laptop that transforms into a home gaming machine only a few steps behind what a dedicated desktop could achieve., Lego Batgirl for scale, The Stealth+Core is but one way to achieve that right now, too. Any laptop with a Thunderbolt 3 port can in theory talk to an eGPU, including the Core, although word is that can sometimes involve a bit of fiddling on anything other than a Razer system. If youre in the market for a new latop and like to play games, do not even consider buying one without a Thunderbolt 3 port, as you might be cutting yourself off from significant upgrade possibilities later. Even then, you need to be careful and do your research, as some, for example Dells latest XPS and Inspiron 15, are nerfed to only run at half-speed., If you go the triedntested Razer route, money is a huge issue, however  500 for the Core dock alone, then youve got to provide a graphics card and a Thunderbolt 3-equipped laptop. Youre probably not looking at much change from 2000 if you do the whole thing from scratch. Of course, a laptop without an internal discrete GPU is far cheaper than one with, and hopefully well soon see more proliferation of TB3 in cheaper portables. , And if game performance continues to be only mildly affected by CPU capability, as has been the case for many years now, we might be looking at a situation whereby buying a laptop now lasts you for much longer than has historically been the case. You pay through the nose now, but only need to buy a new GPU every couple of years instead of redoing the whole kit and kaboodle. (Until Thunderbolt 4 comes along and ruins everything, no doubt). , This future is coming. It wont be long. Its not quite here now, but if youve got the money to spend you can achieve surprisingly great things that are surprisingly uncomplicated to setup and use.

Hollow Knight [official site] presents a peculiar issue. What do you do with a game that is genuinely good, but rather unoriginal? A game that is so, so similar to others that have come recently before it, but is still a beautifully drawn, solidly built metroidvania? Do you say, Get this one, because its the most recent? Thats not a coherent argument. Unfortunately for Hollow Knight, I think the design decisions that narrowly define it are really its core weaknesses., I love these sorts of games. I can wile away many hours jumping around their labyrinthine caves, eeking out new abilities to reach new areas, incrementally improving my health, jump, attacks and skills so that what was once a challenge becomes a corridor on the way to the new challenge. Its a wonderful model, and its been done wonderfully many times before. So Hollows choices to make what are stalwarts of the genre into its most frustrating features is a disappointing decision. I have played for a good few hours, but am only a fraction of the way into the game. Keep that in mind as you read., , Were not short of competition. This year has already offered us the utterly splendid Alwas Awakening, then just a few months back we had the triumphant release of Owlboy. 2016 also saw the competent (but extraordinarily familiar) Song Of The Deep, and the sublime Ori &amp; The Blind Forests definitive edition. Then theres Aquaria, Axiom Verge, Environmental Station Alpha, The Swapper, VVVVVV, Cave Story+, Guacamelee, and the dozen others youre annoyed Ive not listed. And of that list, most problematic for Hollow Knight is Ori &amp; The Blind Forest., The two games have a great deal in common, but Ori is just better in every element. And sure, thats an awkward critical path (this game isnt as good as the best example of this genre), but it starts to become a more imposing issue when the game in question appears to bring nothing new to the table., , In Hollow Knight, you play a bug-like creature exploring (wait for this) a formerly rich and vibrant underground world that is now grey and ruined. Goodness me, how did they think of this?! At the start youre limited to a melee attack and a basic jump, and as you progress through its caves you gain new skills and buy others from a growing number of above-ground merchants. Out of reach areas become in reach when you gain, say, a dash move, which leads you to new zones and their fresh crop of currently impassable obstacles. It is, to put it more briefly, a stock metroidvania., From this foundation most games listed a couple of paragraphs above bring their own new details. Owlboy has your character able to carry another in his talons, bringing in their unique abilities as you fly through its world. The Swapper has its key mechanic to make it stand out. Ori has a tale of deep emotion, breathtaking art and well, heres the rub. Ori is actually not especially original  it just messed things up for those that come after it by taking the core foundations and delivering them with something close to perfection. So when Hollow Knight steps onto the battlefield with no unique weapon of its own, Ori just squishes it., , I began by alluding to its weaknesses and perhaps now I name them youll take umbrage. Hollow Knight takes core features of the genre and then tries to tell you theyre special. Like, perhaps at its most egregious, your position on a map. Maps are tricky enough here, with new zones not possible to even map as you explore them  you have to buy or find a pre-created map to even bring up the map screen for an area, and then fill in the dotted lines of where youve yet to explore. Quite why your character cant know that they just walked down a path and went left Im not sure, but thats how it is. You can spend long stretches aimlessly stumbling around until you find your way out. But on top of this, to see where your character is on a map when you have one is considered a feature, a special ability gained by purchasing it from a shop and then using one of your precious ability slots to implement it. A basic standard of the genre, locked up behind a purchase and a skill use. So, so weird., So rather than enjoying a burgeoning pool of abilities, youre restricted to however many ability slots you have, and choosing between them. Id love to use the skill I paid a small fortune for that makes drops magnetically attracted toward me, but I really cant live without the extra soul gathering from attacked enemies (used for both healing and crucial ranged attacks), and knowing where the hell I am on the near-identical monochrome section of a level at any point. Any other game in the genre lets me have all three without a fuss, and doesnt even consider one of them a special feature., , My other big issue here is again something that might have you cry, At last! What Ive always wanted!, and all power to you. The game feels way too loose and sprawling to me. With a real lack of direction about why youre there, what youre trying to achieve, and why you should want to go anywhere beyond because its there, the openness of the multiple zones ends up leaving me feeling agoraphobic rather than freed. You know that eventually youll hit an ability wall, perhaps a chimney of rock with alternating spikes on either side, and youll think, Oh, Im going to be able to bounce off walls at some point then, but theres no notion of how, or where, or when, or why. There are so many dead ends to go in at once! Im left wishing for some allusion toward direction, or at least a more meaningful motivation for such rambling. , All this said, it delivers on what it delivers. The movement is fast but sturdy, the combat nifty, and the artwork is really lovely. Its choice of greys and muted greens and blues doesnt do it enormous favours, and each area is pretty monotone. Animations are great, and the world is pleasingly detailed, but it also feels flat and dulled. Again, the comparison with Ori is a heavy blow, and if you were choosing between the two itd be another strike against., , But perhaps youre not. Perhaps you just want to plough through another metroidvania (if only we had a better name than that), and then this is a fine game for you. It ticks most of the boxes, completely with difficulty spike bosses that make me want to carve my hate for the experience in the sides of mountains, but apparently people love those. Its a pretty, competent, if needlessly frustrated standard of the standard. That might be just what you need., If youre looking for something like this, then get yourself Ori &amp; The Blind Forest, which is truly tremendous.

Gosh, were living in brilliant times for interesting games. It seems barely a month goes by now without something novel and fascinating appearing, pushing at the edges, upcycling old ideas for new minds, and messing with our brains. The latest that fits all these categories is the really very splendid Stories Untold [entirely pointless official site], ostensibly a collection of four novella-like adventures linked by an opaque theme. Its part parser-based text adventure, part horror peculiarity, part 80s TV show Its unlike anything youve played before, despite being built from the half-remembered remains of a childhood of gaming., So a familiar caveat to accompany such a review: if you trust me, if you want to experience the game with as little information as possible so everythings a surprise, then take the above paragraph as everything you need and spend 6 on this. If you want more details (wonderfully written and spoiler-free), then read on., , The games store information is deliberately vague. The games website is blank to the point of apparently forgetting that theyve released it. Youre meant to go into this blind. So Ill give you the setup, then move on to the criticism., It says on Steam,, Stories Untold is a compilation tape of four experimental text adventures, including a remaster of the original episode The House Abandon., Even that isnt quite true., As you begin youve four chapters in a row on a title screen, only the first available to play. Each unlocks as you complete the last. And the first is The House Abandon, a parser-based text adventure (or piece of interactive fiction if youre cool), a previously released project that has been updated for this compilation. Start it, and rather pleasingly instead of simply being presented with a screen of text, youre presented with a screen, keyboard, lamp and desk. Type on your keyboard, text appears on that in-game monitor, and perhaps in the most superfluous sound effect in gaming history, it makes keyboard noises to match. (I WAS ALREADY MAKING KEYBOARD NOISES, GAME.), Then you know what to do. Youre outside a house, in your car, theres a glovebox., &gt; OPEN GLOVEBOX, Theres a note and some keys. You take them., &gt; LEAVE CAR, And so on. Youre returning to your family home after some time away (Im not sure if the Gone Home similarity there is deliberate, but if it is, its not important), you need to get the power on, get inside, start looking around. Until stuff starts happening. Interesting stuff., , The second chapters short game changes things rather. Youre performing experiments in a dark laboratory, following instructions on a green monochrome monitor, fiddling with hardy old machinery to conduct peculiar tests. The third sticks with the themes of monitors and following instructions, but this time in a completely different setting, with some more involved interpretation of codes. The fourth is yet again a new location, a new approach. Theyre linked, but exactly how is vague, and trying to draw lines between them is an interesting aside as youre drawn into each unique narrative., , There are some issues along the way. When youre using the parser interfaces there are a lot of expected basics that arent in place. It doesnt seem to know basic IF commands, like look on its own for describing the current area, or i or even inventory for finding out what youre holding. All IF games have frustration when they dont recognise a term, especially when youre using the same wording in the description, and theres definitely too much of that here. A bit more work on guessing how a player might phrase something would improve the flow of things. And there are a fair few typos throughout, not all of which I believe are deliberate., More infuriatingly, it insists on teletyping out the text for each location even when youre revisiting, and wont let you type until its done. Thats a very odd design choice, especially when it insists on re-describing the current location if you, say, read a note. Just let me type already! And perhaps most problematic, at a certain point in the first chapter, you can only continue by entering a specific phrase which it prompted you to enter a screen or two back. Enter the phrase incorrectly and the response only tells you again to enter it, rather than reminding you what it is it demands you say. Slight variations on the phrase it wants arent accepted, which leads to a frustrating time of trying to remember the exact wording that appeared on screen once, and cant be brought back., My other issue is that, well, damn  I cant really say. There are lighting problems in the third section, lets leave it at that. Ooh, I hope that complaint has the side-effect of being intriguing., , But back to celebrating this, because flipping heck, its good. Its good because of what youre not expecting, and if youre annoyed that youre now expecting something when you werent before, you should have trusted the second paragraph in this review. When will you learn? Its good for all the reasons I cant say, or Id make them less good for you., There are so many lovely details, not least the splendid opening titles sequence for each of the four segments, reminiscent of many an 80s TV show, with a Stranger Things-like title card to boot. There are indeed many details you wont even know are lovely details. Ooh, its a bit clever., (Slightly connected to that, its important to add a quick health warning. (For real, no gag.) Pretty much all games come with an epilepsy warning, covering their backs for those just-in-cases, which I suspect means even epileptics might have developed a habit of ignoring them. So its worth emphasising that Stories Untolds epilepsy warning is for real  theres a prolonged sequence in the game that has multiple rapidly strobing lights that isnt to be messed around with if youre at risk.), , This is smartly written, intriguingly delivered, and wonderfully unique. Its fascinating that in the same month weve got two such wildly different interpretations of interactive fiction, with Night In The Woods combining the genre with platforming and bright cartoon graphics, and Stories Untold pulling it toward something equally visual, but dark, grimy, and frightening. These are splendid times to be gaming!, Stories Untold is bleak and disturbing, novel and experimental, and most importantly when doing all that, very clever. Its smarter than youll realise, in fact. And why its smart is all in the experience of playing, not to be given away in the process of reviewing. A pain in the arse for me, but worth it for you.You know Planescape: Torment well, and chose to hear whether Torment: Tides of Numenera will betray your trust or not rather than to have its nature defined first. , Please note that certain key elements of the game are skipped over here, which is because they are covered in more detail in the Torment newcomers review here. I did not wish to repeat myself unduly in an already long article. If you are a Planescape veteran, I do encourage reading both pieces. After all, you rather like reading, dont you?, We expect certain things of a game with Torment in the title  expectations that have mounted rather than faded over the years., We expect striking, sinister architecture and weird creatures of uncertain intent. , We expect extensive excavation of moral grey areas. , We expect decisions to agonise over. , We expect to barely raise a fist in anger, unless it is our specific choice to. , We expect words, not spectacle, to do the heaviest lifting. , We expect a mystery that unfurls into existential questioning rather than neat resolution. , We expect to feel that we have barely scratched the surface of possibility, and to find that our journey is fascinatingly, unpredictably different when we start it over., We expect to end the tale with mingled satisfaction and despair., We expect Adahn., We expect what, more or less, Torment: Tides of Numenera gives us. , By which I mean: relax, its good news., , I should say first that Numenera feels more constructed than did Planescape. It is very clearly created to give fans exactly what they demand. Because of this there is a palpable sense, at times, that its creators carefully reverse-engineered its revered 1999 predecessor, perhaps even working from an inviolable set of commandments about what makes a Torment game a Torment game. , Sometimes this does robe Numenera in a certain scent of artificiality, where by contrast Planescape felt organic, this shiny new mind unexpectedly breaking through the confines of the roleplaying game structures of the time. Only a little, though. Though once in a while theres a slight clunk as it blatantly reaches to hit expected beats, in the main Numenera is exactly the game it needed to be., Steam tells me one playthrough took me 36 hours, but at least some of those were spent reloading savegames to explore alternative outcomes for the sake of this review. If you plan to play this as a conversation- rather than action-led character, as I did, teasing out every thread you can find, as I did, expect to end up with something similar. , , However, I am relatively certain that one could blow through the campaign in a third of that time if side-quests were neglected and violence favoured. I recommend against this, not from a pacifistic point of view, but because Numenera is such a deft cats cradle, with even some of its most seemingly irrelevant fetch quests and favours containing ties to the bigger picture. In some cases this means more insight into how this place works and who your character may or may not be; in others there are moving or harrowing unexpected consequences that only reveal themselves in the long-term. , It is those consequences, more so than the central story (or, more specifically, it is those consequeces ties to the central story) that achieve the most emotional clout. Take your time here. Explore everything. Do nothing thoughtlessly. Know that your actions will be rewarded, or punished as the case may be, and anticipate that more than you do the conclusion per se. When the final act arrives, it does so somewhat abruptly and introduced by an oddly weak twist  my chief disappointment with the storytelling. , There is a faint sense that, perhaps, Numenera is one area shorter than it needs be  not in terms of length, but in terms of flow. I do not know if something was left on the cutting room floor or if it is simply a wobble in execution, but I did feel suddenly railroaded into climactic events before certain strands of the story and world (both deeply intertwined) had seemed fully teased out. This is not to say the absolute conclusion is weak  quite the opposite in fact, due to its remarkably thoughtful links to your choices across the course of the game, and it has scope to play out significantly differently because of that  but rather that the moment of movement into the final phase is a little jarring., , The other disappointment (Ill move back to praise shortly, fear not) for me was the central character. It is here that I proved most unable to push Planescape memories and attendant expectations aside. Its protagonist, The Nameless One, was immediately memorable, both in his forlorn yet determined nature and his half-monstrous, half-tragic appearance. He was walking sadness with a something deeply dangerous bubbling just underneath his scarred, grey-blue hide, and this concept of his being the risen dead, immortal despite his better wishes, spoke to true weirdness. He himself made it clear that we had side-stepped into a different reality of roleplaying games. , Numeneras The Last Castoff, by contrast, is rather a more conventional figure, despite having, if anything, a more thorough and extensive backstory with profound and strange links to almost every aspect of the world they find themselves in. Though their story spirals off into singular places, in appearance, essence and even treatment by others they cleave closer to the sort of character one might find in a Dragon Age or, to be carefully specific about how this shakes out, Baldurs Gate II. , My suspicion here is that more thought has been put into the Last Castoffs story than has his or her personality. Clearly, a keystone of a Torment game is that the player can impress their own beliefs and attitudes into the tabula rasa that is their character, but even so  The Nameless One was very much The Nameless One. The Last Castoff could be anyone. , , This story-over-personality issue is particularly apparent during Numeneras first and weakest couple of hours, which suffer from an overload of both lore and terminology (specifically, rules from the pen and paper Numenera RPG setting this game is based upon). My heart sank as I felt as though any possible points of connection with this world were being drowned out by someones uncensored fiction and presumed knowledge about an external game from a different medium. There were walls everywhere I turned, and I felt exhausted by the huge array of new NPCs waiting to gabble lore at me in every new area or building I entered., My fear was that the whole game would be like this  that the successful Kickstarter had given the writers a blank cheque to do anything they wanted, unfiltered, uncensored, unedited, and it had resulted in wearying drone of Ideas. , Fortunately, this was resolved by a combination of Torment narrowing its focus to characters rather than high concepts and simple perseverance enabling me to reach through the initial babble and find the threads that mattered. Those threads are long, enmeshed with the very essence of Torments setting, and spin off in unexpected directions, regularly causing me to question my own actions even though I largely stuck to a philanthropic, empathetic path. , Depending on the choices you make  some moral, some a matter of effort and determination  seemingly inconsequential events explode into later significance. Though the Last Castoff themselves never touched or broke my heart, a couple of the characters they came into contact with did. I can say no more, you understand. Against this, other characters  by which I mean possible party members  did feel as though they were short story first, personality second, and I left them benched unless a specific situation seemed to call for them. , , A couple of companions here (and one in particular, but I shall write about them separately, later) are fit for a place in the halls of honour, but others failed to be as memorable as the cast of grotesques and unfortunates in Planescape: Torment. Everyone I met seemed to be, to all intents and purposes, a human with a tragic backstory, not the alien oddities or malevolent powderkegs of Planescape. There is no Ignus here and, most noticeably, no Morte either. , Two things here, mind you. One is that I was younger, more impressionable, more patient, more willing to be overcome when I played Torment. Characters that might seem less compelling now, after these tired eyes have seen, heard and read so much, were fresh and exciting then. The other is that, of course, I cannot say with any certainty that I have not missed something  someone. I look forwards to secrets I had not even guessed at being revealed. , When I hear about those secrets, they will doubtless turn out to be new vertebrae along Numeneras long and twisting backbone, not diversions off to one side. The dawning realisation, as I played, of how precise this initially random-seeming weave was, is why I am in awe of what has been accomplished here. , The central reason for Tides of Numeneras being is a riposte to RPG convention  that this should be a game where story, and exploration of what that story means, is of infinitely greater importance than spectacle and action. Not for this the lurid sex scene, the legendary weapon or the explosive magical lightshow. Plenty of combat (turn-based and party-based) is available if you so wish, though I found it to be rather functional and with far less fascinating consequences than talking my way out of or into trouble. , , That is because Torments spends the bulk of its energies instead on connection and on meaning. I am avoiding details of the story, for that should be discovered for yourself, but suffice it to say there are many commonalities with the themes explored by Planescape. However, the question is not what can change the nature of a man? but rather what can change the nature of a world?, The answer, of course, is you. , This is an uncommonly elaborate act of videogame storytelling. At times, it leans very close to interactive fiction, while at others it carefully explores the talk down or fight formula that characterises many latter-day RPGs. I engaged in very few battles, always preferring to find a peaceable solution  if anything, Numenera is a little too built for this, and its too easy to become a god of conversation. By the midpoint of the game, it was a foregone conclusion that I could succeed in any conversational gambit I chose  the question was of the consequence of that choice, not whether I could pull it off in the first place. Planescape felt like a constant gamble by contrast. , I suppose what Im saying is that pouring all my level-up points into cerebral skills never felt like a compromise. I am broadly happy with this, because that is the game I wanted to play, and I appreciate how finely Numenera is balanced to be a game of talking and reading rather than necessarily one of violence, but I would have felt more pull to immediately play it again had there been a more palpable sense that I had missed out on things by not choosing aggression. I may be wrong there  there may be whole strands as yet unexplored. It did not feel like it, but felt instead that I would be shutting down rather than opening up possibilities. I may be wrong., Let us talk, finally, of writing and of presentation. It is a well-written game, yes  often, the quality of the words, the play of their language, the ludicrously careful interplay of their themes, filled me with both awe and envy. Other times, it all seemed flabby, too caught up in showing off ideas and colour to find the truth of its message and the heart of its characters. While once I believed that there was no greater accomplishment for a game than to contain a novels worth of words, these days I respect the editors knife almost more than I do the writers pen. I would prefer Numenera shorter rather than longer., (He says, guiltily eyeing the word count: 1871 notification below this, and conscious that he has three other sections of this review still to write). , , Nonetheless, this is a triumphant achievement in (near)mainstream games writing, and of taking fantasy themes and transforming them into the meaningfully human rather than the merely mythic. A little more small-c conservatism would have been a boon, and it takes a little too long to reach its focus, but when it does it puts most everything else in the shade., It is frequently a beautiful game too, as should be expected. Technologically, its a few years behind the RPG pack, but Ill take simplistic character models and 2D backdrops any day when they have this degree of fidelity. Though mostly static, the environments are huge and lavish, filled with beauty, oddity and sometimes gruesomeness. My chief excitement on progressing to a new section of the game is about what sights will sprawl across my screen. Once in a while, it even achieves relatively spectacular setpiece. , There is, throughout, a slight air of artificiality to Torment: Tides of Numenera. It has been made to please a specific crowd, and sometimes that shows; sometimes that comes at the expense of what matters most. This is outweighed entirely by the scale of this accomplishment. Torment is the weird, wordy, wise and wicked roleplaying game weve so desired during these long years of heightened spectacle. Not a total triumph, no, but close enough., Our expectations have been met.

Every Monday we send Brendan to scout the early access ruins for hidden treasures. This week, the careful Viking tactics of Northgard [official site], This is Blainn, below. Hes just killed a Wyvern. Hes my best mate because I gave him and his giant pals, the Jtunn, enough food to last a lifetime. They reckon we in the Goat clan are excellent humans and now Chief Blainn is fighting alongside us in our hoofed conquest of the whole land. This is one endgame that comes in Northgard, a rock-solid RTS about allocating and reallocating your Viking workforce in just the right way. Technically this match ended over an hour ago, when my opponent reached a wisdom victory. But its a testament to Northgards foundations that, when given the option to leave or continue following my defeat, I happily clicked keep playing.
, , Its cartoonish facade suggests a game of town building and ale-drinking. There is some of that  you need to build breweries and host feasts to keep your people happy, for example  but otherwise this is as classically expansionist and competitive as they come. There are a few ways to win. You can research the most lore for the aforementioned wisdom victory, you can kill all other clans for a conquest victory, or you can achieve the most notoriety by defeating monsters lairs and raiding distant off-screen lands for a fame victory. In my own head, victory was not achieved until the whole map was coloured in red., Here the land is already cut into pre-made slices. Each quadrant of the map has a resource or benefit waiting to be exploited and you cant visit or invade one without first sending a scout to reveal the section. Some of these tiles have forests which boost the wood collected by any woodcutters there. Others have lakes where you can build fishing outposts, fertile land for farming, ruins for your treasure-seeking scouts to explore, stone or iron deposits to mine, stone circles containing lore (you need this to research new skills and clan-specific benefits). In other words, all the things a hearty Viking covets. Even a plot of empty land has the benefit of allowing you to build one extra structure there., , That each plot has a limit on buildings is one of its smart designs  it forces decisions on you at all times. Each tile can only house two or three buildings and you quickly find yourself agonising over what to build and where. There are rock deposits in this quadrant, you reason, Ill definitely need a mine. But I also need a healers hut to keep my villagers healthy, a training camp to recruit warriors AND a new house to allow more villagers to arrive at my town hall. Without houses, the clan cant grow, without warriors we cant defend ourselves against encroaching wolves, draugr and other clans, and without healers those warriors will quickly die., , This can be solved by being an expansionist pig. Colonising new areas requires a large down payment of food, so it too is a costly choice, especially in the later stages as each successive tile becomes more expensive as you grow. But its an obvious necessity, not only because unclaimed tiles might have delicious resources but also because you just badly need the lebensraum. Growth is on your mind at all times and there never seems like enough room to build everything you want, as you discover via your scouts that youre hemmed into a corner of the map by wolf lairs, draugr tombs, giants camps, canyons, ocean, and enemy clans., , I cant tell if the maps are being randomly generated or if theres a library of set geography with randomised tile contents. If its the former, then its an incredible map-maker  all the islands I played on had chokepoints, strategic lynchpins, wealthy areas, centralised goals (a legendary Wyvern to fight for fame and glory, for instance, or a portal to hell that will win you the game outright if you can control it for 12 months running). If the maps are predesigned and fashioned with randomised elements, then they are still very well made, geographically speaking. Each starting area always seemed to be purposefully cramped but in its own way that also meant it could be easily defended from monsters in the early game. As for rival clans, the need to explore the island tile by tile means that there are no rushed invasions or skirmish parties heading out across the map. In fact, even if you can see a rival clans home tile, your warriors cant delve that deep into a foes turf. You cant capture or colonise any tile without already owning one adjacent to it. This isnt an RTS of speed, its more one of thoughtful resource management and prioritising., , Your workforce is always central to any plan. Villagers slowly get pooped out of the town hall at your home tile and only at your home tile. Distance is always an issue and over-reaching is as much a threat as the monsters in the tile next to you. Multiple times I sent warriors to an unwise death and realised that I didnt have the manpower to replace them, and even if I could the tiles they were most needed in were so far away and already under attack on by two different enemies that I wasnt able to hold them all., , Its a game of cautiously plucking people and reassigning their lifes work to suit you. Even so, you need to be careful with your wee folks because even a few deaths can knock you entirely off course. Your warriors die and you scramble to recruit new ones, so you have to take some woodcutters off their lumberjacking duty, which is fine for now, but still you might not have enough troops, so you recruit a farmer and a fisherman. Food might be tight, you think, but never mind, you need the soldiers because some portals to Helheim have opened and youll need men to deal with that come the winte oh s***, winter. , , You see, theres a small rolling calendar in one corner of your screen and when winter arrives the frost comes with it. Both wood and food deplete at a faster rate. Farms produce less and your warriors cant fight as well in areas that dont yet belong to you, suffering a combat penalty in the snow. Its there on the ticking calendar, a little white bar that you roll through every year but still you sometimes fail to prepare correctly. One hasty colonisation in September can be a thoughtless drain on your food stocks. One round of upgrades to your houses and one rash building of a longship might see you run out of firewood prematurely., , In these cases people will likely become unhappy, which in turn causes them to produce less in their jobs. Then they begin to starve or die in the cold. Well at least the houses are all very roomy now, you might think. But before you know it winter is over and you have six fewer villagers to work with and the posh houses you just built are lying completely empty. Six deaths may not sound like a lot but in Northgard it can be devastating to your growth. And this is just a description of bad planning during a normal winter. Sometimes there are blizzards, winters so harsh that your food dwindles like its being eaten by rats. Sometimes it is being by rats, because thats another type of disaster that shows up, along with the hell portals and whiteouts., , These disasters always appear in good time though, as a little red exclam on your calendar. You just need to get into the habit of preparation and over-compensating for everything, having contingency plans, keeping your expansions in check with your capabilities. The only complaint I have with these is that theres sometimes an earthquake disaster which sets many of your buildings on fire at once. The idea is that you need to quickly repair them and hope you have enough wood to repair them all. In practice, this is just an unpleasant clickathon, finding each individual burning edifice and clicking repair as quickly as you can, like playing whackamole with burning food silos. I would always have enough wood and if a building got destroyed in the post-quake fires it was always because I had too many buildings to click on, or simply didnt spot one of them in my hasty glancing-over of the map. The other disasters and foreshadowed threats feel strong and concerning. The earthquake is the only one that feels both weak and annoying to deal with, purely from a mouse users point of view., , There are other downsides. Right now theres still only a skirmish mode. Its strong stuff, well worth a play for anyone hankering for some thoughtful arr-tee-essing. But its also sad that the campaign mode remains greyed out, slotted for some future update. Likewise multiplayer is currently non-existent. This is a strategy game that I feel will thrive online like a well-watered plant, providied it is also fed enough human waste. Playing with a few enemy AI clans on the normal difficulty can give you a good run but I imagine many will only lament the lack of a multiplayer when they see how tightly-woven the game itself is. Not me, obviously. I like my casual stroll over the map, plonking down altars and longboats and assigning little men to learn about better swords from giant runestones., , Its an impressively well-made thing, a finely-embroidered cloak of an RTS with all the elements sewn together in a pleasing and sensible way. Most importantly, the immediate environment around your home feels like it really influences your strategy for the whole match. I once spawned in an area with three hunting grounds and a fishing lake nearby, but very little woodland or stone. I had to base my entire economy on stag fillet, placing food silos in every quadrant and blocking off access to our home canyon by quickly colonising a coastal passage into our land. From this position I could trade my plentiful food with both the peaceful giants and other AI players I discovered. From here you can use the money to buy materials in a marketplace (this building slowly accumulates wood, food, iron, and stone which you can buy for coin). In the long run, this is much more expensive than mining stone or chopping wood yourself but sometimes in the early and mid-game it is the best option. I later betrayed my trading partners and murdered them. They stopped buying stag fillets., Eventually, the game ended when I got a wisdom victory of my own (one minor complaint is that this always seems to be the easiest route to victory). I had researched my little Viking heart out and achieved all the blessings of the gods. But, tellingly, I still clicked keep playing.

At one point I was sure I was going to write about how much I disliked Night In The Woods [official site]. At a later point I realised I was going to write about how much I loved Night In The Woods. I think theres a lot to know about Night In The Woods from that. It is both extraordinary and wanting, fantastic and frustrating. Its a story you click through, yet features platform-based dream sequences. Its defiantly linear, yet seems to offer moments of enormous choice. Its perplexing, wide-ranging, specifically brilliant and specifically half-baked. The writing is sharp and intriguing, yet mono-voiced and peculiar. Its a visual novel, but its a platform game, but its an adventure, but its something else entirely. Im pretty sure I love it at this point., , I love that this is a game where you can spend the moment right before bed sat watching a crappy TV show with your dad. That its a game where genuine conversations take place sat on benches by rivers after nights where everythings gone to shit. That its a game where a fight with your mum feels awful, something that has to be patched up. Where you start to care about the lives of characters with whom you barely interact, just catching snippets of their day in overheard conversations. Where a small town is slowly being taken apart by poverty, and this feels meaningful yet in the background, not preached at you or underlined. Where the game changes with every in-game day, as Autumn gets more Autumny. Its bigger and better than I believed for even hours after I started playing., Ive come away from it with memories, in the weirdest sense. Like, I find myself thinking fondly back on that daft evening in the near-abandoned shopping mall, and the fountain. Even though at the time of that scene I was still wondering if I was ever going to find the way to like this game. I think that scene was a big part of why I started to., , You play as Mae, a 20 year old humanoid cat who has just dropped out of college and moved back to her hometown, into her parents house. (Quite whether youre actually a cat is a matter of some confusion, since your friends appear to be bears, crocodiles, foxes and the like, but no one specifically mentions this, and more confusingly there are  er  felinoid cats trotting about the neighbourhood as pets.) Something happened at college, and youre not telling anyone what it is. And indeed something happened at highschool, and youre not willing to let anyone talk about it  just that you apparently put someone in hospital. Mae has clearly had some trouble in her childhood, and seems to be doing her best to drag it into her adulthood., As for what the games actually about, so much of the eventual plot appears so late into the game that it feels inappropriate to describe it. I think here the aimlessness, the lack of a sense of direction, or understanding about where it might be going, is a lot of the point. It reflects Maes state of mind, if being a lot less erratic and haphazard than in her head., , And this is also the games initial weakness. I maintain that this isnt a game that starts well. It looks just utterly wonderful from the first moment, and remains visually wondrous throughout  theres no questioning that. But as for your involvement  its, well, minimal. For too long your role is simply to press next. I reached a point after hours of this where I thought, I would absolutely watch this TV show, but I really resent being asked to crank a handle to do so., , Then, definitely too late, it begins to stretch out. This has been labelled a visual novel, an essentially meaningless term that is usually used to describe dating sims so far as I can tell, but here means, a story its going to tell you whether you like it or not. And very often I pick like it when games give me that non-choice. But usually because theres a bit more involvement in-between the dialogue. Of course, Id not have these issues if the game were text on a black background, and I realise my own biases play a big part here. NITW eventually starts to make more of Maes jumpy-jumpy abilities, both in exploring the higher parts of the neighbourhood and in peculiar dream sequences, and while its never actually a proper platformer, it at least gives the delusion of participation as its story becomes more interesting and focused. It also has an array of mini-games, even including a shop-lifting challenge. Oh, and Maes computer has a complete dungeon crawler roguelite on it!, , Mae is one of the most interesting player characters of recent times. She makes bad choices at a professional level, and is fortunate to have friends as good as those she does. The relationships with her chums, all members of a band she plays in (which offers some wildly incongruous Guitar Hero-style sequences where youre given properly difficult challenges for songs youve never heard before), are by far the most interesting aspect of the game, each relating to Maes madcap approach to reality in their own way., But Im also convinced shes a weirdly written 20 year old. For a great deal of the time she behaves something closer to 12, seemingly as unaware of the world as 12 year old might be. Sometimes this works, sometimes it stretches credulity. That shes unwilling or unable to let go of her teenage years is apparent and deliberate, but I think it reaches too far into that, breaks the frame a little with overwritten silliness. I imagine thats a contentious point, and others will argue Im wrong  its a fine line, certainly, but one with which I think the game is a little too eager to take liberties., , Which brings us to another odd issue. The writing is lovely, and just so good in so many ways. But its written with one voice. Everyone is dryly witty in exactly the same way, the same sense of humour shared across the main cast, both Maes parents, the local vicar, a grumpy guy you bug in the street Its a voice I enjoy (although one I can absolutely see deeply grating with others), but it does start to feel a bit ridiculous spread across an entire town of wry sarcasm., , There are some technical issues too. Interactive pop-up zones are often too small to react to when moving. Your character runs to the left, and by the time youve reacted to the little bubble telling you theres something to look at, youve gone past it and have to backtrack. A lot. Such an easily identified issue, if you only watch people playing your game. And the jumping, necessary for finding all the games hidden extras, is a touch wonky., Worse though are those earlier scenes where the game works too hard at implying choice, and providing none. At a certain point youre at a party in the woods, old school friends, old school enemies, and a keg of beer. Mae hasnt drunk beer before, and so she faces the dilemma of being in an awkward social situation, theres an ex by the fire, and everyone else is chatting in pairs. She could drink, she could not drink. Chatting to others, some suggest she have a bit more, others warn her not to. So a classic gaming situation where you approach the situation in your own way, right? Nothing wrong with a few beers at a party, shes 20, its how many of us make such an evening a little easier to get through. And nothing wrong with not drinking at a party, shes not a drinker, and getting drunk is something many of us find uncomfortable or unpleasant. Except no, its not a choice. Once you exhaust the conversation options, the only thing left to do is drink more. Thats the story the games telling, dammit, and forget your own thoughts about it!, , This improves as the extraordinarily long game continues, but more by changing how it offers choice. By a combination of fewer scenes where you mistakenly feel like youre about to be offered a decision, and an acceptance that Mae is always going to make the worst choices imaginable, that fades away. And instead you are given much larger, more obvious choices  how to spend your evening, for instance. Do you go off with Bae, the hardened, grieving, stoic croc who will attempt to temper Maes wild instincts, or Gregg the fox, a manic and daft childhood best friend who encourages Mae to go smash stuff with him? Maybe you take a calmer time with Greggs gentle, quiet boyfriend, Angus, a bespectacled bear. Or you could ditch them all one night and hang out with a highschooler mouse you find sitting on the rooftops., , The art and animations deserve accolades to rain down upon them. The striking style is gorgeous and wonderful, and it never stops being a joy to look at. Its certainly a shame that they (presumably coincidentally) opted for the same speech bubble style and incredibly similar font as Oxenfree, as it invites a comparison that is perhaps unfavourable. Essentially, Oxenfree is the superior game, and it might not be such an immediate urge to compare the two were it not for this similarity., But the most fantastic detail is the animation. Character movement is fabulous, and Maes sproingy arms and legs as she jumps about are a constant pleasure. Everyones movement is just stunning, and so subtly done. But even more subtle is the use of tiny, tiny details, little blinks or twitches of an ear, that are delivered with exquisite timing. Its hard to convey in text how much this adds, but the enormous effort that must have gone in to get this so right has absolutely paid off., , As for where it ends Im not sure. Clearly Im not even going to hint, but Ive come away deciding to reinterpret a huge sway of the final act in order that it can not be what I strongly suspect it really was. It just about gives me room to do that, too, so thats neat. But still. Its a shame, and why can be expanded upon elsewhere, where it wont ruin the game., So yeah, I started off really not liking it, I grew to completely love it, and I walk away from it with so much love but a wobble of doubt. Its by far the most elaborately graphical piece of interactive fiction, but in being so it suggests its going to be other things too, and its hard (certainly at first) to let go of all that, just let it be what it is. Get there, forget about what else it might be, and for me at least, it got me good., , I have so, so much more to say about it, and it feels mad that I only really mention the three friends so far into this review, then dont talk about them. But thats important, thats me remembering to allow you the same blank slate I started with too. I want to talk about the role of religion, about the complexities of the towns politics, about Maes relationship with her parents, about just so many things. But another time.

Ill avoid open spoilers here (you can find those, and our thoughts on them, here, if youre so minded), but suffice it to say that the final act of Resident Evil 7 Biohazard [official site] is not the equal of the claustrophobic cat and mouse chase/escape room mash-up that makes the rest of the game such a terrifying triumph. It is, then, a relief to find that the first two rounds of DLC, now available on PC after temporary PlayStation imprisonment, broadly mark a return to what made the Baker house such a successful reinvention of the Resi formula., , Ill do this as set of capsule reviews, seeing as the DLC is divided into, essentially, mini-games. Its also currently sold in two parts, unless you splurged on the season pass, known as Banned Footage Volume 1 and Volume 2. Annoyingly, both have exceptional elements and both have entirely disposable elements, so theres no easy buy this one over the other one answer here., The 8 pack comprises, Nightmare, , You know how all the routine monster-shooting was the best bit of Resi 7? No, me either. Anyway, this is that, framed within a wave-based survival structure. I guess its for people who felt the pace of Resi 7 was too slow and not Resident Evilly enough. Its the no-brainer inclusion, but exactly the sort of thing one would expect to find as a bonus mode in the main game, rather than as part of a paid add-on. Its fine for what it is, sure, but its the exact opposite of what makes Resi 7 Resi 7., Ethan Must Die, , Something of a hybrid of the better elements of the Resi 7 main campaign and Nightmare above, this is a combat-focused remix of some sections of the Baker house, culminating in a boss fight. Consciously brutally hard, its entails gradually building up your arsenal and scavenging for resources that, unlike in the main game, are randomly-placed to some degree. Its more interesting than Nightmare for sure, and likely to be of particular appeal to those who immediately replayed the campaign on Madhouse difficulty after completing it once, but I want to be surprised rather than face trial by fire, hence didnt stick with this for long., Bedroom, , The clear highlight of the first bundle, this takes the Saw torture-puzzle ethos of the Lucas section of the campaign and pairs it with the bio-horror and intense menace of the Jack and Marguerite parts. , Its a prequel to the main story, and shows us more of what happened to Clancy, the doomed cameraman seen in one of the found footage tapes (and the demo). He awakens in one of the bedrooms, chained to the bed and with a rictus-grinning Marguerite delivering some unspeakably foul broth for him to eat. Then she leaves, at which point you can attempt to make your escape by finding, combining and deciphering items within the room. However, certain of your efforts trigger her to return, activating a short window of time in which you must attempt to conceal all evidence of your incomplete breakout. , Its a fabulous idea, playing with the memorisation challenges that have long been part and parcel of Resi games, but making them a logical part of the dark fantasy. Even though, by now, Marguerite should be a known quantity, the terror of her impending approach, followed by her suspicious checking of the room to see if anything is out of order, is right up there with Resi 7s heaviest-hitting moments of terror. , Sadly its all too brief and only stands up to one playthrough, realistically. Id definitely be up for a dedicated bundle of a half dozen vignettes like this, though. It utilises and clearly understands exactly what it has in Resi 7s best element  the twisted Baker family  and keeps its hands clean of the excess that characterises Resi 7s final act. , The 12 pack comprises, Jacks 55th Birthday, , Im in two minds about this one. On the one hand, a comic-toned time attack affair feels vaguely in keeping with the kind of bonus modes of Resis yore, although once again its uncomfortable to find it in a paid add-on rather than unlocked at the end of the main game. On the other hand, this treats Resi 7s most unsettling character, Jack Baker, as essentially farcical. Every time we see Jack in the light, his powers are weakened. Even within this DLC package, we have a mode in which Jack is supposed to be terrifying, so turning him into a hungry lump in a party hat here is a risky gambit., But it works, more or less. You, as Mia, have to dash around various parts of the Baker house, trying to find food for Jack before the timer expires. Youll run into increasing numbers of Resi 7s disposable monsters as you do (many in funny hats themselves), and theres a vaguely Call of Duty: Zombies structure here, whereby theres limited ammo and you gradually unlock more weapon types as you play. , Its all very silly and entirely throwaway, but there is an appropriate edge of mania to it, as an otherwise stationary Jack slams his fists on the table and demands more, while you sprint about, terrified not of the monsters themselves, but of the delay they represent. Something of the sadism of the Bakers glints through the broad comedy. On the other hand, it misses a key trick by making the food you have to find entirely ordinary, rather than the tubs of unspeakable parts that we are treated to distressing close-ups of elsewhere in Resi 7., Daughters, , The centrepiece of Banned Footage 2 and, realistically, of the whole DLC boogaloo to date. Daughters is mini-campaign, set before the events of Resi 7 proper. You should not play it if you havent finished the main campaign, and to even talk about it, I need to do this:, SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS, The thrust of Daughters is witnessing the transformation of the Bakers from more-or-less happy family and into the monsters we know and fear. We see their kindness as they bring Eveline in from the storm, we show their rickety home before its coated in a patina of absolute filth, and we see Zoes terror as her beloved parents mutate into twisted horrors. This DLC very much capitalises on Resi 7s strongest elements, which is to say the mingled terror and tragedy of the Baker parents. , However, it also shines unfortunate light on some of Resi 7s weaker aspects, as well as revealing a game thats beginning to strain against the limits of its simple systems. Playing as an as-yet infection-free Zoe, your goal is to escape the house while evading your newly-superpowered parents. Though this marks a welcome return to the paranoia and mostly combat-free early hours of Resi 7, it also means a less welcome to its rather arbitrary stealth systems, where success can depend on enemies inexplicably not seeing you when youre three feet away but failure can result from a total inability to lean or peer and thus requiring sprints-of-faith. , Its multiple endings also depend on that other Resi 7 bugbear, only being allowed to pick up a handful of objects, and in this case the true ending even hinges on finding and using those objects in a specific order. Thats fine in as much as it gives reasons to replay this 40-ish minute long tale a couple of times, but, coming off the back of the main campaign too, it makes Resi 7s inner workings a little too obvious and a little too artificial now., Still, this is broadly an excellent extra slice of Resi 7, returning the Bakers to their deserved front-and-centre placement, making them menacing all over again  as well as their traditional jump-scare behaviour, theyre extra-monstrous because of how brutally they treat their own daughter. Given that this is the earliest moments of their transformation, we also get to see flashes of horror at their own behaviour, and its heartbreaking. Pointedly, Daughters fails to even mention the faintly tiresome Eveline backstory, keeping its focus tight on the Baker household. , Adam felt that Resi 7 itself did a fine job of conveying the tragedy and lost humanity of the Bakers, but I felt that was too little, too glibly. Daughters absolutely fixes that, but I cant help but feel that it would have been far more valuable if included in the main campaign, as one of its flashback sequences, rather than a free-floating cast-off like this., 21, , After Marguerite in Bedroom and Jack in Birthday, sadistic son Lucas gets his turn in the sun. This is Blackjack by way of Saw, with you as long-suffering cameraman Clancy facing off against another Baker victim, Hoffman, in the playing cards version of Russian roulette. Whoever loses a round loses a finger, with further tortures introduced in later stages. Its simple but effective, turning the inherent dilemma of whether to stick or draw as you try to stay under the magic 21 into something deeply traumatic. However, its diminishing returns following the gruesomeness of the finger-slicing initial stages, and theres far too much sub-Joker prattle from Lucas, who remains the least compelling of the Baker clan. I think he wears his malevolence on his sleeve to his own detriment, whereas the fewer words and more opaque intent of his parents keep them deeply unsettling to the last. Still, this does a solid job of making a card game feel like a real part of the Resi 7 theme, and I enjoyed/was distressed by it far more than Id expected., So, is all this worth twenty quid? I wouldnt say so. You could blow through it all in three hours, and its unlikely that youd play most of it ever again. The only elements of it that Id say you even need to see are Bedroom and Daughters, but even those are one-shot affairs., However, given that the 25 quid season pass contains this and some as-yet unspecified further story-based DLC, its probably going to turn out to be better bang for your antique coin. What, in the main, all this has achieved is to restore the Bakers to a position of wildly menacing prominence, something that the closing hours of Resi 7 had unfortunately undermined, and for that Im grateful.

Unexplored [Steam page] generates some of the best dungeons Ive ever seen. On my best run so far, I forged a sword of despair and enemies trembled and fled when I pointed it in their general direction. On my most entertaining run, a Dagger of Shrieking fused itself to my hand. Every twenty seconds or so, it would scream, alerting every bastard thing in the dungeon to my presence., So many roguelikes (and lites), so little time. What a pleasure it is, then, to find Unexplored, a new dungeon-crawler that immediately stands out from the pack, and that can be played swiftly and without too much time spent on the learning curve. Its a wonderful game that creates my favourite procedural levels since Invisible, Inc., , Unexplored might end up being one of my favourite games of 2017. Im going to say that up front so that it can be in the back of your mind as I talk through my initial reservations, all of which subsided very quickly. Its important to note them though because I think a lot of people will have similar doubts and Im here to tell you that its OK. Its worth getting to grips with the idiosyncracies, which range from a few awkward interface issues right up to the fact that it plays out in real-time, because the game that contains them is such a pleasure to play., , Lets get these out of the way then. The interface is mostly great: you dont need to learn lots of keyboard controls because most things are right click to examine, left click to use. The downside is that the screen is a bit cluttered, with the inventory taking up a big chunk of the right hand side, and yet still needing to be expanded if you want to dig deep into your pockets. It only took me fifteen minutes to accept that Id be doing some sorting every now and again, shifting usable items to the visible top layer and dumping spare equipment into the hidden depths, but inventory management seemed troublesome because of the other big stumbling block, Unexplored is a real-time roguelike. Oh no, I thought when I first started playing, everything is moving at the same time and now I am dizzy and frightened. Its fine though. More than fine, in fact; its great., , The combat system is a bit like a realtime version of Deadly Rooms of Death. Your weapon sticks out in front of your character and you can walk into enemies to stab them. Many are rightly wary of your blade and will try to circle around you or retreat, knowing that once you strike the weapon is grayed out briefly, harmless during its cool-down. As well as poking at creatures, you can click a mouse button to use whatever is in your hands  left button for one hand, right for the other  which allows you to thrust, throw or swing, depending on your weapon of choice. These attacks are stronger but can leave you more exposed., Its a system that allows for slow-paced combat, as much about positioning as stats, that can also escalate into panicked thrashing and fleeing when swarms of spiders or a single giant boss enemy attack. Shields can be raised to block, or weapons can be dual-wielded. Magical staffs provide ranged support in the off-hand and torches can be used to light your way as well as to ignite enemies, pools of oil or clouds of gas., , I found one other aspect of the game off-putting at first, and thats the character design. For reasons I couldnt fathom, all player characters are one-eyed folks and I didnt particularly like the look of them. Like everything else that made me frown, I soon understood the reason behind this decision though, and its simple and quite elegant. A one-eyed character, viewed from above with the eye front and centre of the head, is extremely easy to read, in terms of their position and the direction theyre facing. That, combined with the pointiness of equipped weaponry, makes controlling with a combination of keyboard for movement and mouse for targeting simple and efficient. No matter how cluttered the screen might be, the essentials are easy to read., All of those initial reservations werent just batted aside; I love the parts of Unexplored I was unsure about when I first started playing. And the rest, the actual RPG design thats at the heart of it all, is tremendous., , Im so accustomed to dungeons that look like they could have been mapped out on graph paper, corridors and big blocky rooms strung together with no sense of being places that were constructed by anyone for any purpose, that Unexplored is a revelation. Every level Ive seen has its own identity, with outdoor areas, void-straddling bridges and floating islands, underground lakes and lava spills, and temples, storehouses and barracks. The developers have made a very short video talking about the science of their approach., , Read more about how it works right here, and look at the maps in the top left of my screenshots. No grids and no obvious copy-and-paste rooms., , What all of that means, in practice, is that each level is structurally interesting, without too much backtracking, and can happily accommodate smart little puzzles. Ive encountered levels with one big boss and rooms full of minions, and others were theres barely a fight to be had, but lots of libraries to loot. Others are packed with traps, or weird little signs that may or may not be cryptic clues. And those cryptic clues might lead to crypts, full of undead warriors waiting to wake. , Often youll need to find a clue to figure out how to open secret doors or chests, and clues and keys might be a level above or below the target location, so backtracking is sometimes involved. Levels are small though, so its never too much of a drag heading back up a couple of floors, especially if your findings have tipped you off about a big reward in the form of some neat magical weapon., , And youll want that magical weapon because equipment is the only real way to improve your character. Theres no levelling and every hero begins as a classless ball of potential. The one important stat is strength (these dungeons are no place for a Charisma 18 arts graduate like me), determining which weapons and armour you can use without detriment. But strength doesnt increase as you kill monsters, you have to find potions or equipment that buff your buffness., It works beautifully, forcing you to explore and to try and solve puzzles and sneak by or kill enemies so you can find every last item on every level. Because there are no experience points, theres no incentive to kill everything; instead, you can use the stealth system to sneak by, or just outsmart them and trap them in their own dungeon by hitting levers to trigger traps or locking doors. By removing the linear path toward Mighty Hero Status, Unexploreds character-building is similar to its procedural dungeon generation: there are many routes and unexpected detours, and success comes from a combination of improvising with whatever is at hand, and choosing from the paths available., , Long-term, there are options to unlock for new starts, allowing you to experiment with a form of classes, and to buy more equipment at the beginning of a run. Its in the brief, individual adventures that Unexplored excels though. The novel approach to dungeon layouts and character-building makes all of the spider-smashing and key-hunting feel fresh. I play so many games of this type that the line between one and the next is often blurred. That makes it almost impossible for new games to find a spot on my regular roguelike playlist, but Unexplored has claimed one. , A single criticism remains, and that is a desire for more variety, in the form of enemy types and themed floors. Its not that the game is repetitive but Im already expecting to spend months caught up in its traps and I want the surprises to keep on coming., Ill finish how I started: Unexplored is almost certainly going to be one of my favourite games of the year.

How much of yourself would you sacrifice to create a literary masterpiece? Bucket Detective [official site], the new game from the creator of The Static Speaks My Name, is not interested in the answer to that question. Instead, it asks what you, in the role of forty-one year old man David Davids, will give up to write a trashy book thats sure to get you laid. Since seeing each of the endings, the discovery of which is largely based on the answer to the question how far will you go?, Ive settled on a single word that captures my feelings about Bucket Detective., Grubby. Its a grubby little thing, for better and for worse., , If youve played The Static Speaks My Name, youll have some idea of what to expect. Like its predecessor, Bucket Detective is a short-form first-person adventure that concerns itself with mental health, art and obsession. Its also a comedy, at least in part, though even some of its most obvious gags are queasy., , When I wrote about The Static Speaks My Name, I described it as a comedy and a couple of comments expressed confusion about that. Even people who like the game have told me that they didnt find it funny, and werent convinced that it was meant to be. I find humour in these games because theyre so absurd, using a framework of clear objectives to draw out the desires and failings of their characters. The punchlines might be as painful or awkward as an unwarranted medical procedure, and perhaps the laughter is a coping mechanism, but Static did get a few proper laughs from me., Bucket Detective less so. Part of the strength of Static was its setting. Absurdity and dread are more effective when placed against a backdrop of normality, and the protagonists home is oh-so ordinary except in the places that it isnt. The pleasure, and horror, is in teasing out all the loose threads in that space to find how far the apparent normality will unravel. In Bucket Detective, player character David Davids is involved in such a bizarre quest from the intro onward that normality has already unravelled., , Hes a grotesque figure, David. An intro, narrated through a voiceover speaking in fractured grammar and backed by ugly drawings of ugly people, tells of his ambition to write a bestselling novel because famous book make it impossible for girls to resist sex. The idea that writing a book called Bucket Detective might be a route to a decadent rockstar lifestyle is laughable in itself, but when a mate explaions that he knows of a cult that can make the semi-literate David a top author, the entire story dives headlong into stranger waters., The setup allows for a fairly simple series of puzzles. The entire playable portion of the game takes place in a single building where David (and you) follow instructions, which appear as if by magic on a piece of paper that looks like an appointment card. In a strong opening, the first message and its simple objective backfire pathetically, but events quickly become more sinister. Potted plants vibrate, some rooms are rotting, blood sacrifices are demanded., , As you learn more about the cult and its two founders, what should make the game work is Davids oblivious determination. You can choose to leave at any time but forging ahead through humiliation and pain seems like a very David thing to do, and even if you flee, David learns nothing from the experience. As youre picking up on the very blatant clues as to the true nature of the cult, through recordings made by its most naive and innocent member as well as visual cues, youre essentially peeling back the face to reveal the skull. David doesnt care whats under the skin though, as long as he can have lots of sex with lots of girls when the price has been paid. And if that price is self-mutilation or worse (much worse), so be it., By the end, by which I mean the ending that takes the most time to unlock, Bucket Detective has mixed real horrors with imagined horrors. On one level it could be read as a story about the manipulation of greedy, lustful, apathetic people for terrible ends, but theres also a joke in there about the kind of person who will drive twenty miles to save a quid on their petrol. Even though I chuckled and winced, Bucket Detective never amused or disturbed me in the way that Static did., , Its that lack of grounding Ive already written about that left me a little too distant. David is such a ludicrous idiot that stepping into his shoes is just an excuse to use him as a punching bag, something that the game acknowledges, and when other characters elicit more sympathy with a few seconds of screen-time, theres no space to step outside David and away from his grim, grubby little path. If the scenery along that path were more interesting thatd be fine, but I never had that sense of the curtain pulling back to reveal the machinery of the world, or of horror and hilarity escalating., All of that said, Im glad that Barksdale is making these twisted little stories. The Static Speaks My Name impressed me because I never quite knew which way it was going to twist, whereas Bucket Detective is soaking in its own horrible juices right from the start. It starts ugly and ends ugly, without enough humour or horror in between to shock or surprise. Im not convinced its mingling of arcane silliness and actual suffering quite works either; its a bit like Martyrs with gross sex jokes., , But it does have a couple of fun puzzles that arent too taxing, and has one great joke about indefinite articles that made me laugh out loud, so I cant complain too much.

Every Monday Brendan prays to the gods of early access for favour, power and a winning hand. This week, the collectible card game battler Smite Tactics [official site], Being a fan of Duelysts card-based lunacy, I was more than happy to dip my toes into Smite Tactics at Pips suggestion. Its a spin-off CCG from the makers of the same-named MOBA, using their collected gods and mythical figureheads to get you collecting cards instead of pushing mid. Sadly, its as skeletal as an argonauts worst nightmare, in dire need of some fleshing out.
, As a tactical game, the basics are straightforward and recognisable to any Hearthstone dabbler. You get a handful of cards, some are spells and some are creatures that you can summon (or heroes or gods etc). Each creature has numbers denoting their attack strength and health. Every attack (or almost every attack) will prompt a counterattack from the targeted monster. Its more or less a game of small numbers, random luck and tempo, getting into a position to do slightly more damage than your foe at critical moments. Youve also got your principal God on the same battlefield. You need to kill the opposing God to win, chipping away at their larger health pool until one of you snuffs it., The difference here is that youre summoning things to a chess-like board of squares, meaning you can block off enemy attacks with careful positioning, or make use of weaker ranged units by putting them out of your enemies reach. You can corner the opposing God so that they have limited space, or fight for some goodies that spawn in the centre ground. It adds an extra dimension to the gurning arithmetic that goes on in your brain during these types of card games. Each turn has to be played in the ideal ordered, logical steps but also with an awareness of space., , There are only a few Gods to start, each bringing its own Pantheon to its deck. As well as a weak and basic attack, these Gods also have a special ability. For example, Zeus can spend a couple of mana (the magic dollars you spend to play the cards) to draw a fresh card from his deck. Odin can buff his summoned dirtbags with a similar mana tithe. The trade-off is that using an ability exhausts the God, so you cant normally attack and use your special powers. Its one or the other., The important thing to know is that lesser gods  the kind you can spawn as units on the field  also have these secondary abilities. Aphrodite can put a shield on another unit and heal it. Bastet can summon three weak cats each with 1 attack and 1 health. Loki can teleport an enemy three tiles away and deal it 5 damage. This is an extra thing to keep in mind as you fight. Its not always as simple as comparing red and green numbers., , There are a bunch of these lesser gods in each pantheon (about 7-9 in each) but only a couple are open to the beginner in the starter decks. To get new cards you earn favour and spend it on new packs. These contain 5 random cards. But theres also the obligatory free-to-play vom, which encourages you to spend real cash to get runes that you can spend on packs. The shop full of runes is unsurprisingly tiered to make you spend more. 7 card packs would cost you 500 runes, for example. But the BUY BUY BUY page lists only 400 runes or 800 runes as a viable purchase, with no in-between option. Its classic stuff from the big book of F2P monetary psychology  inventing a faux currency, randomising the results of a loot pack, implementing a slow grind  and theres nothing here that other similar games dont indulge in. But that doesnt make it any less icky. Especially if you buy the founders pack and are already paying $20 to test the game for them., , And heres the kicker. You really are testing this game. Placeholder art is one thing, but bugs and a positively malnourished user interface mean that even a short and steady match will have its gurr? moments. Ill give you an example: I was playing as Zeus, facing down a player wielding a sturdy Ra. I was on the ropes, almost certainly going to lose. But thats okay, I thought, with my last action this turn I can just splurdge 2 mana and draw a new card., NotEnoughManaForAbility, said a banner at the top of the screen., , I checked my mana. I had three., I checked the cost of the ability. Spend 2 mana to draw a card, it read., Hm., I lost that match, and I probably still would have lost whether the game let me draw a new card or not. But it was an eye-rolling reminder that I was playing a game that didnt always function correctly., Other times there is no bug but the game has not explained itself in a reliable way. During another match, I used a stun card on an enemys ranged minion. From everything Id experienced thus far, this would stop an enemy minion from taking any action the next turn. I also poisoned her for good measure. That way, she would also die at the end of the next go. It was an expensive set of moves but, unless the enemy God had a purification spell (which removes status effects), the minion was certain to die., I was very confused when she let off a shot and struck me for a nasty 4 damage on the next turn. Obviously, I have missed something here  but what? I looked at the battle log (a little menu to the left that shows previous cards played) but I couldnt see anything that explained it. Can minions only suffer one status effect at a time? Was this minion immune to stunning? That cant be it, I saw the little stars whizz around her head. Does stun actually just mean a minion cant move but can still attack? No, because, inspecting the card, it says that stun exhausts a unit entirely. Unless exhausts means something else? I still dont know what happened here., , Of course, these moments of confusion were sometimes only a matter of me learning the vocabulary of the game, getting to know the exact effects of each brutish Ymir, or what Pardon meant when a giant enemy Fury is storming down the middle of the board towards you (it means the unit cant be counter-attacked when it strikes). At those moments when Id misinterpreted something that ought to have been clear, I felt irritated  but only at myself., There are many small differences between this and my usual stomping ground of Duelyst. Your deck is half the size for one thing, bringing only 20 cards to the battle grounds. This is because draw is much slower. You cant replace a card once per turn, so theres less digging for a particular card to land the killing blow., , But this only makes the matches slower-paced and gives the victim of an opening hand of bad cards a sense that theyve already lost. Sometimes I have gone two or three turns without even playing a card, simply because I couldnt afford it in the early game. Normally, if this happened a lot I would consider re-making my deck  but this was with a starter deck, something that ought to be well-rounded. Duelysts solution of being able to shuffle a card back in and draw again once per turn dulls the pain of an unlucky draw. With its smaller deck and secondary abilities, I get the feeling that Smite Tactics wants to be a slower, more thoughtful game. But it only succeeds at being the former., With card design, it simply felt like there was a lack of invention. And although each pantheon has its own tone, no god was radically different from another, no strategies seemed unique to any deck. Odin has some swarmy abilities, for example. One card lets him spawn two ranged archers at a time, another spawns two small soldier boys at a time. Then, he can unleash a cheap spell that does 1 damage at random for every friendly minion., , This is a better example of one Gods vibe but even here there is a fundamental design flaw. All those cards need to be played in succession to land the fullest, strongest blow. Spawn the creeps and wait until the next turn and you risk them all being killed by the time you get the chance to cast the cheap damage spell, nullifying it totally. But do what seems natural and correct  play all the cards one after the other  and youll find yourself with an empty hand and no way to draw up. This might be a interesting risk/reward mechanic for other players but to me the slow draw speed and low creature count feels like a stifling limitation on the game, a ball and chain that turns everything into a sluggish crawl toward an unsatisfying and non-creative KO., , There are other issues, like I said, mostly with the user interface. The matchmaking boots you back to a previous menu for a few seconds when it has found a match, leaving you wondering if it was successful or not. The campaigns promise to allow you to fight AI puzzles in exchange for rare cards, but this menu was totally empty when I clicked on it. Sometimes a match will end and claim you the victor, but theres no indication if this was because the enemy conceded or disconnected or what. These are all problems that will likely be fixed but for now they make the whole experience feel a bit sloppy., I feel like I havent seen enough of the cards to say for definite whether Smite Tactics has some clever plays and strange tricks embedded in its design. It may well have. But the glacial pace, old fashioned fantasy art (filled to the brim with gratuitous tits), sluggish grind and borked UI mean I cant help but view it as a poor mans Duelyst.

Halo Wars 2 [official site] is undeniably a console RTS  a rare, exotic bird that looks a bit weird and could only have evolved on an island split off from the rest of the world. Removing it from its natural habitat and introducing it to the PC ecosystem, where its evolutionary niche isnt quite so niche, might seem a little cruel and ill-conceived. But while its certainly not a perfect fit, its striking and, more often than not, quite a lot of fun. Heres wot I think., , Its been a long time since Halo Wars first graced the Xbox 360, but its been longer still for the games protagonists, the stalwart crew of the Spirit of Fire. Theyve been asleep for decades, only to return to a galaxy thats changed. A post-Halo 5 galaxy. As Ron Perlman likes to remind us, however, some things never change; whatever else has happened while the crew have been sleeping, the Halo Universe still loves a good war. And so it is that the long lost Spartans and Marines find themselves embroiled in yet another conflict, even before theyve wiped the sleep out of their eyes., , Remember the Brutes? The big gorilla-like aliens who served the Covenant? Well, theyve rebelled, sent the Covenant packing, and their leader Atriox has claimed the Halo-building Ark as his new home. One ship stands in the way of his plans, and thats enough to kick the plot into gear, even if Ive either forgotten what those plans were or they were never clearly expressed in the first place. , Halo Wars 2 spins a yarn thats pretty typical of the main series  some high concept ideas made a little rote by a very simple narrative. For all the weird super weapons, nature reserves floating in the heavens and super-smart AIs, the campaign mostly just focuses on humans fighting evil aliens. Again. And then it ends awkwardly and abruptly to set up a sequel. , This three act war takes more than a few ideas from its FPS counterpart, with its exceptional Blur-created cutscenes  stunning works of CG art  and story-driven missions. Each of these 12 battles feels distinct, too. Not to the extent of, say, StarCraft 2, but theres enough of a mix so that the campaign doesnt outstay its welcome. Most missions take between 20-30 minutes to complete, so its a brief campaign, but its blessed with solid pacing and a good mix of objectives and scenarios., , Its also surprisingly welcoming to Halo newcomers. It really doesnt matter if you havent been paying much attention to what has become a massive and rich universe, because the crew of the Spirit of Fire have been out of the loop for years. Between the crew itself getting up to speed and the unlockable snippets of lore, its easy to get a grip on what the hell an Ark is and why everyones so obsessed with the titular Halos. , Campaign highlights include fighting and even getting to control the ridiculously huge Scarab unit  one of two super units in the game  and giving orders to not one but three badass Spartans. The campaign is filled to the brim with thrilling, explosive moments, which almost makes up for some stinkers like holding an area for 30 minutes, which Creative Assembly seem to think is such a fun mission objective that they use it twice., Lets get back to the Spartans. Even though they appear as teeny, tiny warriors here, they are every bit as impressive as the likes of Master Chief. Every unit, from the vehicle-pounding Cyclops to the speedy and iconic Warthog, gets a special ability on top of its primary fire mode. The Warthog, for instance, revs up and slams into enemies with satisfying kinetic force. The Spartans are special, however. They get two equally fancy powers., , The first Spartan ability allows them to leap into the air and crush units when they nail their landing. This also lets them quickly jump off cliffs, surprising their foes below. Target a vehicle with that leap, though, and the ability changes. Instead of smashing into the vehicle, they hijack it. Every vehicle apart from the aforementioned super units is vulnerable to their superior hacking skills, allowing them to flit around the battlefield inside everything from the spry Wraiths to huge mechs bristling with rocket launchers. They feel every bit like the super soldiers the FPS makes them out to be. , While the unit selection is strong and their abilities often flashy, Halo Wars 2 never really seems to care how you use them. There are counter units, support units, myriad upgrades, but fights mostly just come down to who has the biggest blob of scrappers. I mean, you can try to play tactically, and youll probably need to  at least a little bit  when facing human opponents, but even then its more about army composition rather than being the smarter commander. , Controlling the Spartans, and every other aspect of Halo Wars 2s vibrant and colourful battles, can feel a little off at times. Even when using a mouse and keyboard, its clear that concessions have been made for controllers. Units can be ordered to move, attack and use their special ability, but theres little of the extra layer of control you might expect from a PC RTS. Your units constantly need to be micromanaged, theres no patrol or guard options, and theyre cursed with poor pathfinding. The AI isnt a serious threat, mind, and replacing units is a doddle, so if you do lose track of them, its not the end of the world., , These limitations arent all bad, however. Being able to relax on the sofa while playing an RTS using a controller is an enjoyable novelty, for one, but even if youre playing Halo Wars 2 like a traditional RTS, the restrictions sometimes create interesting strategic wrinkles. , Base building definitely falls into this category. Instead of being able to place structures and defences wherever you please, maps are littered with predetermined base locations for HQs and mini-bases. Once you construct one, extra nodes appear around them, and thats where youll plonk down your resource harvesting buildings, unit production facilities and your turrets. It seems horribly restrictive at first, but Im now pretty sold on the idea. , If you need more energy or supplies  the games two resources, which are only generated by buildings because there are no resource nodes  you cant just build a new generator or depot whenever or wherever you want. If youve already got one of each, chances are that youll need to destroy a building to make room for an extra one. Or youll need to explore, hopefully finding a node where you can set up a smaller base. This forces commanders to plan ahead and be willing to make the occasional sacrifice while also making build orders more reactive. It also encourages aggression and boldness. When you run out of space, youre probably going to need to steal it from your opponent, destroying one of their bases and then building on its ashes., , Maps tend to be compact areas, full of winding paths that end in open battlefields. Units dont move swiftly, especially in groups where their speed always matches the most sluggish unit, but battles are frenetic affairs where victories happen quickly. Despite their pace, there are plenty of opportunities for shifts in dominance and nasty surprises, largely thanks to powerful leader abilities. These nifty skills can be used to heal groups of units, drop down turrets or extra squads like ODST troops, or carpet bomb an entire area. Smart use of these game-changers can decide the outcome of a fight, but they have long cooldowns, so youve got to pick your moments., While Halo Wars 2 has its fair share of multiplayer modes, often influenced by the FPS games, the standout is undoubtedly Blitz. It subtracts buildings and unit construction for pacy firefights over a trio of capture points, with troops and abilities being played via cards. Its a deck-building game, then, with each faction and commander getting unique cards, as well as a few neutral ones. You need to fight over energy pods that fall from the heavens before spending that energy on new units and powers, so its not just a race to get to the capture points, but also battle over fleeting resources. , In the other modes, theres little beyond aesthetics to make armies feel distinct, but in Blitz there are enough unique cards to make some pretty diverse loadouts. And of course theres the randomisation factor, as youre never quite know what your hand is going to be. Theres usually a decent mix of powers and units, though, and Ive never been in a position where I didnt have anything worth playing. It helps that you can burn a card  for a cost  and immediately get a replacement. Cards costs are also generally low enough that you can field a beefy force with powerful units after only a short time, letting you get right into the thick of things and enjoy the type of scraps that youd have to wait much longer for elsewhere., , Blitz is also the one place in Halo Wars where it feels like youre being rewarded for being a clever, sneaky bastard. Because Id played through the whole campaign before jumping into Blitz, Id gotten used to just stomping around maps with one giant army, but that doesnt really work here. Its also not a good idea to spread your forces out; youve got to stay mobile. , Recently, Ive been saving up my energy and leaving a single, expendable unit on the far side of a point. When the enemy storms it, I drop some mines  if I have them  and then summon what is essentially a brand new army. Maintaining line of sight of the capture points turns out to be even more important than keeping them defended., Halo Wars 2 is simultaneously conservative and inventive. Its definitely trying to evoke traditional RTS games  which is not entirely a bad thing given the recent dearth of them  especially when it comes to the campaign, but elements like base construction and Blitz mode make it stand out enough that it doesnt feel like youre just going through the motions for the hundredth time. A clumsy UI and weird, sometimes fixed, keybindings and controls reveal its console heritage, but there are a surprising number of benefits to that side of the design. Some of the places where the formula has been redesigned in order to appeal to the Xbox One crowd, and to fit a controller, are the points where Halo Wars 2 finds an identity of its own.

With Aer still somehow not out yet, I needs me some more flying about a pretty place games. Spotting Copoka [Steam page] in the waterfall of Steam releases I wondered if it might keep me going. Not really, no. Heres wot I think:, Copoka ends up as one of those nice ideas that just doesnt quite come together. Ive argued before that there need to be far more games about flying around as a bird, so it would be churlish for me to entirely dismiss this. The problem is, there are too many problems, from the bugginess of the game, the lack of proper satisfaction with the flight controls, and a narrative concept that doesnt hold together., , On some levels I want to be more generous  this is a small indie game costing less than a pint of warm ale, and in many ways very pleasant. But on another Im really annoyed by how it has described itself:, Copoka is an open-world exploratory indie game where you play as a bird flying around a city looking for twigs to build your nest., Now thats game I wanted to play. That is not a description of Copoka. It is with some bitter irony that I notice the developers are called Inaccurate Interactive., This is in fact a very small enclosed city, which you can see all of from your starting point in the middle, with no meaningful notion of exploration at all. Theres nothing hidden, nothing revealed by looking over there, no openness in any understanding of the term. It feels like what might be the first level of a larger game, instead used four times in a row as the only level of a very small game. Again, small indie game  but bad description., , But take that limited (although sprawling, and very lovingly detailed) city and then let me play as a bird seeking out sticks and twigs to build a nest! That sounds adorable and splendid. But its not that either. Its in fact a game about flying toward building-sized sparkling lights around the city and picking up four lots of four shiny objects, and carrying them back to your already-built nest. Yes, one of these four madly twinkling objects in each round is a twig, but no, thats not what was described. Along the way there are 12 bonus feathers to fly into, which speed you up (barely noticeably), but I found ten of these without trying, and an eleventh after a quick look., The real point to it all is to overhear conversations between denizens of the city as you float about. It seems theres a fascistic leader in place in what appears to perhaps be a banana republic, with a burgeoning rebellion planning to rise up. Each time you collect four items the story advances forward (with no noticeable change beyond the conversations taking place), so you can listen in again by flying near clouds of white feathers. But fly away from them and they stop or fade out, which is utterly infuriating since theres nothing to actually do during these unanimated chats. You just have to sit your bird there, being bored for a bit., , The characters in the world are a lovely design, and the whole place is very pretty. It has some great music, and it plays in dynamically dependent upon where youre flying in the city. But its glitchy as all hell, flight not letting you satisfactorily swoop and swish as you might like, with your bird unable to take off from far too many places it can land, and clearly there is such a high expectation that youll get stuck clipped into the world that it monitors for it and respawns you after a few seconds. But I think more problematic is the story, an attempt to, I dunno  discuss?  regime change and totalitarianism, but I guess the polite word to describe it is sophomoric. The more accurate might be bad. In the end, it felt to me more of a piece of apologism for a dictatorship! I think that might be more to do with being badly handled than deliberate political intent. But still., Again, so much of this criticism really wouldnt feel relevant if the games own storefront (if it has its own website, I cannot find it) didnt describe something totally other than whats being sold. This is not an open world game, theres absolutely no exploring, and you dont gather twigs to build a nest.

Theres a scene in the History Channels Vikings where the protagonist, Ragnar Lothbruk, says he is bloodsick after a hard fought campaign. Hes maudlin, weary of everything. Its as if he is coming down from a dark age combat high. Well, thats sort of how For Honor leaves me feeling after a battle. Even if my team won, Im frustrated and irritable at all the small deaths. That attack from behind by three other players. That shonky, crowded melee amid the NPC pawns. Those dozen cuts from a Samurai blade that I could have sworn I was blocking. All of it working together to leave me weary, sighing and bloodsick.
, For Honor is Ubisofts ludicrous love song to the idea behind Deadliest Warrior. What if all these infamous fighters through history were to meet and fight it out? Vikings, Knights and Samurai clash swords, axes and katanas in a never-ending war. Theres a story mode behind it all, which puts a manipulative war God, Appolyon, at the centre of things, conspiring to make the three groups fight their infinite fight. This single-player (or co-op) mode has its strengths. Its a good way of learning each characters moves, for example, and completing the story gets you a good amount of steel, the games currency, which you can spend in multiplayer to unlock new classes of character or gamble for better gear in grubby loot crates., , But mission by mission its not much more than a conglomeration of recycled multiplayer levels with set pieces and terrible dialogue that youll recognise from hundreds of action movies. Toward the end, one of the characters confronts Appolyon, who has been stirring up trouble like an armoured Trickster since the start. You! the character gasps, You want war!? I exploded into laughter. Yes, you dense fugitive. We have known that since the opening cinematic. We have known that since the trailer., , While the story mode is not much but a hackneyed tapestry sewn together from Ubisofts big box of levels, the real gristle to chew on was always going to be the multiplayer fights. The premise might be Vikings v Samurai v Knights but thats not how the fights actually work. Its red versus blue and you can mix and match, fight as any kind of warrior. So in the games 2v2 brawl mode you might have one team featuring a ninja-like Orochi and a blonde Raider, throwing down with a knightly Warden and a spear-wielding Valkyrie. The eternal war of three is only really for show (and for the war map  which Ill talk about later)., After moshing about in the open beta, I stormed into the full game confident in my ability to throw tin men off bridges. A lot of genres have been fused together here to create sportsmanlike battles full of angry men and women going back and forth and stabbing each other in the head. In game modes like Dominion theres even a little bit of MOBA influence if you squint. Fragile creeps in the form of lowly soldiers constantly flood down the middle of the battlefield, and you have to help them out by clearing the way of enemy creep-soldiers. Unlike the other two control points, this is the only way to take the centre of the map. You have to pitch in with the plebs, which leads to all sorts of moshpit like fights with player-controlled enemies, as each of you try to find space among the throng to get a sense of your surroundings and lunge at each other., , In this mode, you need to get 1000 points and the enemy will break, at which point you need to kill them all and wipe them out, since they cant respawn while theyre breaking. But if the enemy can hold out, kill your team and regain some ground and points, they will rally allowing respawns again and giving them the chance to break the other team in a counter-attack. This can lead to close games as warriors rush around the field reviving their dead mates (this doesnt count as a respawn) and coming back from the brink of defeat. To ensure the dead remain dead and unreviveable, you can kick or push players off ledges, where their body cant be reached, or you can perform an execution as your final blow against a flagging player. They cant bring you back to life without a head, mate. Sort yourself out., , Much of the appeal comes down to the fights themselves. One-on-one bouts can be tense, exciting battles. You have to be aware of your foes attacking direction (presented as little white arrows) and match that direction while guarding to block the incoming hit, while also striking out in an effort to get past their own guard. This is the basic principle of the fighting, however, theres much more going on underneath. Sometimes too much more. You can also grab opponents, throw them, parry attacks and perform heavier and slower attacks. It doesnt really end there. Depending on the type of warrior youve brought into the fray you can also:, , Because of the variety of tactics and movesets, defeating even one player requires agility, timing and a vicious and permanent awareness of the nearest unfenced ledge. Its a rough, adrenal affair. But then you find yourself up against two people. Three people. The entire enemy team. At this point youre lean, high-grade mincemeat. Taking on more than a single person alone is folly. And thats before you consider any of the characters perks that are unlocked as the battle goes on. Some of these let you plant down a life-giving aura for other players. Some let you call in a volley of arrows on enemies, or throw flasks full of fire, or mark an enemy for death and reduce their defence., I learned how to fight dirty when I lived with the Rat King Covenant, however. So I love the use of your environment to get kills or even just to make your opponent wary of approaching you. Throwing people into pits, moats, off cliffs, castle walls, perilous bridges. Booting them into a wall of spikes or headbutting them straight into a fire. It summons a good, bloodlusty feeling. It makes you feel like Rollo Lothbruk, you know, before he went all French., , But there are also plenty of players to whom the whole system of blocking, countering, feinting and slashing comes freakishly naturally. During one gore-soaked Dominion match, I had repeated face-offs with one Knight who was consistently swinging a mace around as he jealously guarded a control point the entire match. I tried everything  grabs, counter-attacks, stunning blows, dodging strikes. Every time it was a futile effort. Six times I had my head crushed by that mace during our vicious rivalry. Six times. It was like having a fight with a living quicktime event., Theres usually at least one person like this in every match. Normally, a jerkish Samurai Orochi. These dual-wielding characters dont have a default stance (same goes for the Knights Assassin and the Vikings Berserker), so the direction of their incoming attack doesnt appear until the last second, meaning you have to be quicker in response when guarding. They are fast, vicious monsters who can dart and dodge blows while delivering their own small cuts at the same time. You can play as giant, tanky characters and still succumb to the speed of these stab-happy rats., , The trade-off is that they are difficult to learn and master, like other classes of fighter. Spear-wielding Valkyries make me quake with fear, because they have a move that can sweep you up by the heels if executed properly, and they are fond of bashing you with their shield. The most rotund of the Knights, the Lawbringer, has a pinning charge that stabs you in the gonads, which can then be followed up with unblockable attacks that youll need to dodge, not block. But if youre like me, the instinct to raise your shield will always take over and youll know before the strike hits, by the appearance of small firey symbol, that you are soundly dead., , But again, these classes are hard to learn well. They can still fall to the much more manageable Raider. I use this hearty woman to whap people on the bonce and stun them. In this state their screen goes grrrhb? and they cant tell which direction the next strike is coming from. In their panic, I grab them and toss them off a rampart., So, the fighting is quite good. But there are issues. The popular Dominion mode is both the most fun and the most annoying. Here, death comes by the gankful. A lonely player is a delicious lamb for a pair or a trio. And if you are being spammed with attacks from multiple directions, theres normally no way out of it. Youre supposed to be able to roll out of a fight by double-tapping A. But firstly, the roll never rolls you that far. Secondly, any blow while unlocked from enemies interrupts your movement completely. Running is only an option if theres already distance between you and your predator., , You could play the 1v1 duels exclusively, or you can just accept this pack mentality to be part of the game, train yourself to recognise the signs of a fight worth fighting. If Im on my todd and I see three enemies, for instance, I tend to turn around and nope my way out of there lickety-split. If I see one guy, Ill charge toward him and look for the nearest environmental hazard. But theres no avoiding the gank sometimes. Players popping out of seemingly nowhere, AI bots becoming human at a moments notice, running around a corner to find the whole enemy team descending on you like a pack of rabid honey badgers. All these deaths and more will come to you in time, my sweet child., The problem, I think, is that there is far too much going on in any one fight. Say you run up to point C and, oh look, its a Warden with death in his eyes. Thats okay, lets just keep your eyesight trained on his guard stance. Left, right high red! Parry! Left, high heavy left swing! Dodge! Phew, this guy is really dancing thats for sure., But as youre doing all this you also need to be keeping an eye on those ledges nearby. Theres three drops into sweet nothing to keep track of here, and a forth onto a lower level, where he might throw you and jump down with a killing leap (or where you might be thinking to do the same) and these are  Left red! Block! Right red, parry!  these are things to be aware of., So your eyes are going everywhere at this stage, when you suddenly, instinctively remember to glance at your radar. There are two orange blips coming up behind you. GG, Warden. You mutter as the knives come down, GG., , In other words, For Honor demands an often-exhausting amount of spatial awareness, abstract awareness of enemies, and the twitch-like instincts of the fight itself. Its like trying to play three Batman Arkham games at once. Then, at a critical moment, the screen is covered with garbage., Im talking about the games UI here, which is as intrusive and irritating as any Ubi game can be expected to be. Even the menus outside a fight are busy, garbled boxes. On the multiplayer menu theres a big war map which shows the territories owned and fought over by each faction. As you win matches you can dispatch war assets into these territories on behalf of the faction youve allied yourself to. I pledged myself to the Vikings at the start of the game, so a big axe comes down and stabs the map whenever I send my war assets somewhere. Take that, map! Every few hours the map changes, depending on how folks have been allocating their warboys., , But what any of this even means, I couldnt tell you. At the end of a season, were told, therell be rewards for everyone who participated, according to your factions score. But fight-by-fight, this map is just a convoluted distraction. It helps to think of it like the map in Planetside 2, except you cant explore a single inch of it and it has no real significance, since all the battles already take place on a preset list of cycling levels entirely unrelated to the larger world. An early video says if an area falls into enemy hands you will see many changes. But they only mean that some round shields on an insignificant wall will become square banners on an insignificant wall. Theres no real geography to any of it, no real war. Just a playlist of battles and a funny-looking map slowly being painted a Viking red (Valhallllaaaaaaaaaa!)., But nothing demonstrates the games overbearing UI like when a match goes to sudden death. Here, darkness starts to intrude at the edge of your screen, the left and right fills up with names and profile pictures so that you can see whos dead and whos not. All this at the expense of seeing, you know, the actual battlefield., , It is a frustrating and totally unnecessary obfuscation of your view. Your fighting attention is already busy enough, filled to breaking point with radar, player enemies, NPC hordes, and environmental obstacles. I do not need giant skulls appearing in my peripheral vision, along with more flashing words right in the centre of my sight. UI designers, please stop what you are doing. Please, stop., There are other irritations, unrelated to stabbing men in the neck. Matchmaking is unreliable and often garnished with lengthy wait times. When a match ends players often leave, and the game doesnt know how to look for new ones, even if theres four people willing to stay, so it just kicks you all out at the end of a timer. Ive seen all manner of error messages saying that a match Ive tried to join is full, or that theres a simple network error, both of which kick me out of matchmaking and back to the menus, rather than simply lining me up for a new match automatically. Network issues also mean you sometimes swing to stab an opponent for a cheap cut of human meat, only for the game to freeze and this to appear., , Its not an ideal launch. Mostly though, the busy-ness of the fighting is why, despite enjoying the charge of my warring Raider and being a dastardly manipulator of gravity, I tend to come away from the battles surly and tired. But also, the over-reliance on ganking as a genuine and expected tactic simply makes losing horrendously un-fun. They definitely called it For Honor as a joke, because I have rarely yelled oh fuck off at a death screen with such disdain for my opponents. This game is going to give me a heart attack, said one player to the rest of our team. We had just won a match., , Overall, I dont know exactly how I feel about For Honor. It sometimes feels like a Ubisoft hired a bunch of scientists in white coats to observe Dark Souls PvP from behind reinforced perspex and experiment on it with Dota DNA in a mad attempt to recreate a tame monster in a safe environment for their own nefarious ends (profit). What theyve made is an interesting chimera, something that is both more accessible but sometimes just as unforgiving. I expect that to be able to enjoy it more, Id need even more time to practice, more time to learn the ins and outs of all the characters, to become better at reading its clustered mess of a screen, to build up that thumb-cracking muscle memory to a point where I too can crush a mans head with a mace six times in a row., But I dont know if I can face that. Because right now I just feel bloodsick.

Urban Trial Freestyle 2 challenges you to master a multitude of courses in either stunt mode or time attack. Tracks are treacherous with a variety of jumps, obstacles, and barely noticeable bumps that aim to trip you up. It took me a while to really get into the groove of everything. The key to doing well was not only track memory, but my ability to adjust on the fly. Speeding through a track isnt necessarily the best way forward as I discovered it was much more important to make sure my bike was well balanced on the ground, going into a jump or coming in for a landing. , In stunt mode, there are a few pre-determined spots where youll need to complete the required stunt. I put that in quotes because three of the four stunts are not stunts at all. You either jump high, jump far, jump a certain distance, or do a flip. At first, I found the scoring for these tricks to be wildly inconsistent but I eventually learned the quirks of the system. For instance, when doing a flip I found that nailing a perfect 360 wasnt nearly as well received as slightly going over. , Tracks arent necessarily built to make performing these stunts easy. In fact, many of them seemed to be actively working against me and nailing a four or five-star run required multiple attempts. Branching pathways made replaying the tracks enjoyable, but the poor placement of checkpoints hurt the experience. They almost feel like theyre inserted at random and several tracks could be greatly improved with some checkpoint adjustments. One I remember had a series of difficult sections with a small break in between the two most difficult jumps. Clearing this part of the track took roughly 20 tries, a number that could have been cut in half had the checkpoint been moved from the end of this section to the middle. I know that sounds like a you-need-to-get-gud complaint, but many other tracks where I didnt face any troublesome jumps also had checkpoints that made little sense in their location., , I dont think Ive ever given much thought to a games menus in any of my previous reviews, but I need to take a moment to tell you how awful they are here. Tracks are grouped together in several different locations, such as highways and suburbs. When you select a location, you can choose the track you want to play, but after you are done with it, you can either go to the next track in the group or exit back out and repeat the selection process. The rest of the menus look straight out of the '90s and feel like a first draft. , Nowhere is the poor menu system more evident than in the track builder. You can build and upload your own uniquely designed tracks as well as download those designed by others. The options are extensive for building your ultimate track, but theres no smart or simple way to navigate its available elements. When placing pieces on your track, you cant easily snap them together to make an easier ride. Creating a quality track took a lot, a lot, of trial and error as I had to learn the jump angles possible from each individual jump. Having more options would have kept me in the mode for longer, or even just the option to move where the finish line is. , As for unlockables, there is new gear you can purchase - all of which is just as ugly as the rest of the game - as well as upgrades for your bikes. There are four bikes to unlock that each handle in their own unique way and upgrades you can purchase for those bikes. , Im sure there is a demographic out there that Urban Trial Freestyle 2 will appeal to, but it is clear to me now that I am not a part of that key demo. While I can appreciate what they were going for here and I found myself really getting into the challenge, any feeling of joy I experience doesnt last for long when Im faced with so many bewildering design choices., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Urban Trial Freestyle 2 reviewed by CJ Andriessen, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Waaagh to the future, I've been playing Warhammer tabletop for nearly 20 years, and I've seen what feels like hundreds of games based on the property come and go. Some stick with me, like Total War: Warhammer. Others fall by the wayside and are forgotten like Fire Warrior., But the Dawn of War series has been one of the most consistent sub-franchises of all. Even with some of the missteps in the third iteration, it's still relevant.

Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War III(PC)Developer: Relic EntertainmentPublisher: SegaReleased: April 27, 2017MSRP: $59.99, Since there's been a lot of confusion as to whether or not Dawn of War IIImultiplayer has shifted into a MOBA, let's clear that bit up -- it's not, and I say this as someone who plays a MOBA match nearly every day. But seeing as the developers even stated in the past it is "inspired" by them, you're going to see some similarities., Sure there's a core to destroy now in multiplayer matches, but first and foremost, themodus operandi is that of an RTS. There's base building, point capturing, and plenty of micromanaging and control group creation. It's more like the first Dawn of Warreally, with a few streamlined concepts like enhanced heroes (elites) and stealth brush thrown in -- things that have been done in plenty of RTS games before it, from Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert's Tanya and beyond. Elites need to be paid for with elite points, which you speed up by capturing points and building generators on top of said points, which you'll need to constantly defend. There's walkers as well, but their existence feels somewhat cheapened by elites (they can share the same category), as they have less abilities to work with and mechanically provide a lot of the same support., That's forgivable though as each and every elite is formidable, yet sports few enough skill shots to make them impactful without providing an overwhelming presence like MOBA heroes. It's a delicate balance, but I like having elites, especially some of the more lore-heavy ones, in tandem with the base building system. With that in mind, the lack of variable win conditions in multiplayer (it's always "blow up the core") is something I'd love to see altered in a patch., , Mechanics like mass recalling, interconnected teleporation webways, and timed core invulnerability make for some cool comebacks, but ultimately they just filter back into the idea of destroying the core instead of tactically cutting off each building one by one (which you can still do, but if you're in their territory, you may as well go for the win).I tested out some AI matches in addition to multiplayer pre-launch, across the 1v1, 2v2, and 3v3 modes. Eight maps isjustenough to get me by, but after enough time has passed I can see myself wanting more., Taking a closer look at the armies -- Marines, Eldar, and Orks -- Relic is basically riffing off of the launch choices from Dawn of War II, minus the Tyranids. Stylistically they're very different, and if you were going to go with three choices, these are probably the ones you want. As per the actual lore Marines are basically 'roided-up assholes that rely on functional tech, Orks operate with horde-like mentality with shoddy weaponry, and the Eldar are prim and proper mystics., Mechanical differences range from the subtle (a few elites share the same abilities with only slight nuances) to drastic (Orks need to build towers to upgrade their army, and Eldar can warp buildings around at will). All three armies are wonderfully animated, which is a feat given the enhanced unit count. It's always a treat to see the detail that goes into something as basic as summoning grunts, though I do wish you could zoom in a bit more., , Proper cover is gone (it's relegated to a shield buff in certain locations now, though the Eldar can call upon their own version of it), but there's still plenty of micro opportunities for each and every unit. You can toggle stances for melee and ranged attacks, use unique abilities like grenades or jump jets, queue up defensive or hold formations, and issue sequential commands for individual units -- typical RTS staples. Every squad is also explained with a helpful series of tooltips, so even if you don't partake in the 40K universe you can tell the difference between a heavy bolter and a lascannon. The unit build queue is also easy to read, as is creating multiple control groups. Dawn of War IIIis more accessible than past entries, but it doesn't sacrifice its integrity to get there., Multiplayer isn't the only thing on offer, as there's still a campaign mode that sprawls across the three aforementioned factions. You'll jump from mission to mission as it follows the core narrative, spurred by the Eldar's obsession withthe Spear of Khaine, a "divine" weapon. Some are elite-centric and that's fine (I liked the Nova missions in StarCraft IIfor the same reason), but because of that laser focus, you could argue that it takes multiple levels until it really ramps up into something exciting., When it does get good, it can also get frustrating. Some later missions feel cheap in the sense that the CPU is kind of just throwing insurmountable odds your way without the level of tactical depth you'd expect from an RTS campaign. It's also worth noting that when playing through the story mode I experienced some light glitches -- things like units moving through walls even though they lacked an ability like jump jets -- but nothing game-breaking or critical like crashes., , As far as long term goals go, playing just about any mode will earn you skulls to unlock more elites, which is all part of the rat race. It rubs me the wrong way that some of the more iconic characters are gated behind skulls, as are some individual abilities, but these gates never felt like they were outright ruining the game or even slowing the pace of any individual match since their base kits are well designed. As is the case with any Warhammer strategy fantasy there's always more races and factions on my wishlist, but the deep faction/army painter is a good concession for now., Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War III takes a few steps back in time to make one step forward. It hearkens back to a lot of older design choices from the first game, and attempts to build upon other RTS conventions in the process. Not everything works (especially the strict adherence to the core conceit), but it's still very much both a Warhammerand a Dawn of Warjoint.

As the obligatory remake of the bunch, Excess is a re-imagining of Modern Warfare 2's Rust -- you know, that oil yard map. You remember, right? That one in the desert? No? Same. Every map has its fans, but I'm struggling to think of why anyone would pine for Rust's return., Excess is a marked improvement with its snazzy metropolis theme, but that idea has been done so many times in multiple "far future" lines that it's not exactly novel (I wonder how people will take to the upcoming game, which returns to the series' roots). I do enjoy its open setup and the signature attention to detail, but it's not a particularly memorable part of the rotation. It's like a junkier wing of Turista (another map in the same DLC)., , Every Call of Dutymap developer seems to be contractually obligated to occasionally provide a dull entry so the rest of the add-ons seem exciting by comparison. Scrap takes the bullet this time., While there's plenty of opportunities for choke-points and interesting objective play, the "moon junkyard" motif really isn't doing it for me. It kind of exposes the limits of the space concept for Infinite Warfarein general -- while the team could have gone really out there and given us something alien (DLC is the perfect opportunity to be weird), or something new, we return to the moon., There's one cool mechanic that involves jumping up onto a magnetic piece of machinery to invert your avatar, but it's not very practical and is limited to a few locations., , Turista is a little more rock and roll. It's a high-tech resort that's housed inside of an alien creature's skeleton, which is basically as metal as it gets in a sci-fiCall of Duty. A loomingHalo-esque bone setpiece towers above you as you play and adds a good amount of atmosphere, and the (not obvious) three-lane setup ensures that it's easy to acclimate to on any playlist., It's a beautiful level that pushes the engine and the design limitations that many of Infinite Warfare's base maps suffer from., , Archive does enough to fit in as a premium map, with a distinct focus on indoor combat. The whole art gallery gimmick doesn't go nearly far enough (half a shark body coming out of the ground is funny for a moment, yet you cannot, I repeat cannotthrow grenades into its mouth!), but it's bright and full of life, which beats out a lot of other maps. As well as it plays, I hope actual far future art is a little more punchy than this reality., It can't be understated how much effort was put into the gallery though -- theAndy Warhol cat pictures series is a nice touch, and I can't believe you can read each individual placard (we've come a long way when it comes to FPS map aesthetics)., , Of course all roads lead to zombies, and most of you are probably picking up Continuum for its main course,Shaolin Shuffle. The comedic stylings of Kevin Smith (which, as polarizing as Smith is, fit well in the last DLC) have been subbed out for veteran actress Pam Grier, who is a pretty good get even if she's underutilized. I have a massive sweet spot for the disco era, and the Netflix showGet Downhas allowed me to indulge in that fix, but I could always use more. This mostly delivers by taking some risks, even if they don't all pay off., There are so many absurd and unique ideas in this DLC that really make the case for a standalone zombie game. Four individual kung-fu combat styles (and great-feeling weapons like swords) that embolden the typically weak melee system are the highlight, as is the disco dance floor, punk mosh pit trap, and a mutated former CEO rat king. They don't go too far out there mind, as most of the fluff like roller zombies and era-appropriate attire are things you'd expect to see., The setting also unfortunately does not match the ferocity of its Tiger Style. A run down New York City, no matter the era, has been done to death -- and nothing here elevates it above the rest of those renditions. I'm still really digging the Scooby-Doo-ass cartoon cutscenes, and this subseries of zombies has so much heart, perhaps more than any other facet of any Call of Dutygame before it. You have to give it to Infinity Ward's zombie team (and the celebrity cast) for sticking it out this long. I'm glad that these folks didn't meet the same "one and done" fate that Jeff Goldblum and company did in Black Ops III's short-livedShadows of Evil., Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare: Continuum is an uneven but above-average pack. It pales in comparison to Sabotage, but hasn't dragged down the season pass as a whole in any meaningful way. I'm anxious to see what the next two offerings can bring to the table, while we wait to hear more about Sledgehammer's next project., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare: Continuum reviewed by Chris Carter, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , All good things must come to an end, HAL Laboratory games have the uncanny ability to always bring a smile to my face. No matter the title, the developer knows what to do to absolutely charm me right off my feet. Whether Im inhaling a Waddle-Dee, doing battle with a hippie, or figuring out the object hidden inside a block, HAL titles are able to produce that dumb, goofy, dont-care-how-unattractive-it-is smile in ways no other games can, and Bye-Bye BoxBoy! is no different., , 

If youve played BoxBoy! or BoxBoxBoy!, congratulations, you already know the basics to Bye-Bye BoxBoy! Nothing has changed with the basic formula. Youre still controlling Qbby, a jubilant box with legs, to generate a single string of boxes that help him make his way through the three or four puzzles each level holds. These boxes can act as platforms to guide him safely over spikes or death pits, shields against electricity, or help Qbby reach places his stubby little jump cant., So long as you remember which button does what, youll have no problem mastering Bye-Bye BoxBoy!s mechanics. I had played through the original game just before downloading this, so it was all second nature to me. While the opening set of puzzles didnt do anything I hadnt already seen in BoxBoy!, new hazards like water and wind mix things up, forcing me to pause, think, and create some eclectic chains of boxes in order to proceed. , Those puzzles were entertaining, but what really got me into the game was the Qbabies. Each of the first three planets house one of these little box kids in dire need of a good rescuing. Qbby saves them in a series of escort mission levels that, like every other level in the game, are short, sweet, and simple to grasp. As he proceeds, the Qbaby will either follow directly behind or be separated below him, requiring Qbby to drop down the appropriate box shape for them to proceed., , Once the Qbabies are safe and sound, they grant new abilities. These skills, which allow Qbby to create boxes that rocket upward, blow up parts of the map, warp him past obstacles, and make a chain he can snake around the course, are fun to experiment with and really elevate the game. It just sucks the use of these power-ups is extremely limited, only accessible in a handful of puzzles. They never overstay their welcome, but I also dont believe I saw the full potential for any of them in their brief appearance. As was my experience with BoxBoy!, Bye-Bye BoxBoy! is very easy and I was never really challenged until accessing the bonus worlds. Even collecting all of the optional crowns in each level, something you must do before you generate a certain number of boxes, was a cinch. , Outside of the journey, you can use earned coins to purchase new costumes, music, challenges, and comics, the last of which I found to be downright adorable. If you own either of the previous games, some of the costumes collected in those will transfer over including the incredibly useful bunny ears. You can also use Kirby series amiibo, or Kirby characters from the Smash line, to unlock cool-looking color costumes modeled after the pink puff and friends. The amiibo screen also has a slot for the Qbby figure which I hope is an indication that well be seeing it here in the west and not simply something they forgot to remove in translation. , Bye-Bye BoxBoy! is being billed as the last of the BoxBoy! trilogy and if this is where things truly end I think thats for the better. Qbby is great and this monochrome world is wonderful, but I feel as though its basic puzzle formula is on the cusp of getting stale. If we do see more of this boxed boy, I hope his next adventure is something more substantial., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Bye-Bye BoxBoy! reviewed by CJ Andriessen, A solid game that definitely has an audience. Might lack replay value, could be too short or there are some hard-to-ignore faults, but the experience is fun.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , The best time I've had hookin' since college, One part ghost, one part pirate, one part bounty hunter, one part hooker. No, I'm not talking about your grandma, but the protagonist of Flinthook, a game that had me 'hooked' from the start., Sorry. I had to.

Flinthook(PC[reviewed], PS4, Xbox One)Developer: Tribute GamesPublisher:Tribute GamesReleased: April 18, 2017MSRP: $14.99, On paper, Flinthooksounds like a formula that has been done to death (at least on Steam): a rogue-lite platformer with pixelated graphics and randomly generated maps. However, execution is everything, and Tribute Games has mostly nailed it from the wonderful intro laced with one of the most exciting chiptunes I've heard, to the long and difficult final bounty., So check it: you're Mister Flinthook, a ghost that possesses a humanoid form which dawns an anchor that is used as a grappling hook. You're also a space pirate, which makes sense as each map is a different ship you board by blasting through on the giant anchor that your ship uses to propel itself through space. While I'm not quite sure what your end goal is, you set out to fulfill bounties by tracking down four different fugitives, each requiring you complete more ships than the last., Captain Flinthook is armed with a basic gun that shoots plasma balls in any direction around himself, and a grappling anchor that can also be used in any direction. While the game is fully playable with a controller, movement and aim are mapped to the left stick with seemingly no way to change it. This is in contrast to playing with a keyboard and mouse where the mouse controls your aim independent of the direction of your movement. That said, both control schemes are serviceable, though being able to aim with the right stick would have been appreciated and made the two options feel a bit more on par. You can also momentarily slow down time, which is useful when there are many enemies and bullets to avoid. Apparently, there is also an evade button, according to the game's options menu, but I couldn't seem to get it to do anything on either control method. Weird., Regardless of control discrepancies, I found the control scheme easy to pick up, and natural. The hook can be used to quickly move around via latching onto golden rings strewn about each room. Many times the use of these rings isn't optional as entire rooms will have no safe points to stand, but no worries, there are no one-hit kills in this game and health can be extended over time., , Health isn't the only thing that can be upgraded; your gun, hook, movement speed, and various consumable sub weapons can be as well. Upgrades are found in chests and on ship shops using gold, unlocked via packs earned by leveling your character from gold, or purchased from the black market on the main menu via special black market coins found in chests throughout each map. Upgrades come in the form of equippable perks of which you can only use so many at a time based on the number of points you have unlocked to do so. You can also buy more perk points in the black market. While there are a ton of different perks to unlock, I never found many of them all that useful aside from having my bullets go a bit further and extra health., Flinthookisn't particularlydifficult, but that could be thanks to me putting nearly all of my perk points towards health when available. During the last bounty, I believe I was able to be hit close to 20 times before dying. But without taking my health addiction into consideration, I found most of the enemies pushovers. Heck, most of the ones you find on the first bounty simply float in the air not attacking, and die in one hit, which isn't a great impression to start out with. Thankfully the further you go on the harder the game gets as it introduces stronger and more difficult enemies. The bosses are where the real challenge lies, but the game makes sure you're ready for them since they each have attacks that are similar to lesser enemies found throughout the ships that proceed them., The flow of the game is pretty simple: choose a bounty of the four unlockable, complete the required number of ships, fight the boss. Each ship acts as its own randomly generated standalone map. These maps are made up of shops, obstacles, rewards, secrets, and rooms where you're locked in until you kill all the enemies that spawn, awarding you a chest accompanied by a pleasant sound effect; a small touch that makes getting them rewarding till the end. Chests mostly contain gold to spend at shops on board or food to heal you, and they can also be found tucked away behind spikes and other obstacles in certain rooms, just begging you to try to get them., , The actual maps themselves are mostly laid out in a sort of linear way in that there is one path to the end with side rooms that are shops or chest rooms. Once I figured this out I'd step through doorways in each direction off of each room to see what kind of room it was, as most of the time if it had another exit, it meant it was the path to the end. If not, it probably had a chest or shop in it. This process wasn't exactly fun, but more so tedious, since it otherwise meant backtracking through each ship to check rooms I'd passed by, although I'm not sure how it could have been designed better. I suppose I preferred that to the ships with the labyrinth modifier that meant there was no obvious direct patch to the end., Between each ship, you're given a selection to choose from, each marked with different modifiers. Modifiers include things like the aforementioned labyrinth layout, but also infestations of certain enemies, low gravity, curses, and the kinds of shops or collectible items you'll find on board. There are a couple different collectible items to find, pages that give you the lore behind an item or character, and relics which appear to serve no purpose, although I'm sure there is some hidden meaning behind them., As far as lore and story goes, there isn't a lot here, at least on the surface. No new story is revealed between levels aside from the intro of the game, the intro of the final bounty, and the ending. The lore pages, while interesting, do little more than give you background on characters and locations. Of course, I'm missing a majority of both lore and relics, so perhaps there is more to it than I'm seeing after ranking up to level 41 after 13 hours of gameplay, which was how long I needed to finally complete all the vanilla levels one time., I say "vanilla" levels because hard versions are unlockable from the black market, which probably offer the challenge I wish the rest of the game had. Unfortunately, these harder variations cost a lot of black market coins, meaning you'll have to grind the easier levels to buy them. That seems counter-intuitive, in that it may burn out the more skilled players before they ever even unlock them. As a rogue-lite with randomly generated maps made up of what is most likely hundreds of different room selections, I don't see enough variety for most people to want to keep playing after they finish the final bounty. While I thoroughly enjoyed my time with Flinthook, I just don't see a reason to play more, personally. Those wanting to figure out more lore or unlock every item and perk will get a bit more mileage than my 13 hours., , Aside from gameplay, I love this soundtrack. Tracks match the tone and settings perfectly and reminded me a great deal of Danny Baranowsky's work for Crypt of the NecroDancer. I was actually surprised that it wasn't him behind this score, which should be a huge compliment to Flinthook's composer as I consider Danny one of the best. I especially loved the game's intro theme and the tutorial level that sounds exactly what I'd picture a space pirate's life should sound like. Also like Crypt of the NecroDancer, the shops each have their own tunes that are just delightful, although they lack any vocal tracks., This is going to sound stupid, but I think my favorite part of Flinthookis breaking stuff. Each ship is littered with bottles, boxes, and other breakable materials that almost always contain gold when shot and destroyed. I've always loved breaking stuff in games, ever since the light gun game Area 51let me do so. I guess you could say I'm the Fred Durst of video games...because I like breaking stuff. Get it? I'm all about that he said, she said bullshit., Flinthookis a fine video game that sunk its hooks into me with easy to pick up and play gameplay, a catchy soundtrack, and cute characters. It's easily a recommendable rogue-lite for any fans of the genre or platformers in general. Just don't expect the game to anchor you to your seat unless you're the kind of person that needs to uncover every piece of treasure possible. Even if you aren't, Flinthook is a dandy game, in space., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Flinthook reviewed by Jed Whitaker, Impressive effort with a few noticeable problems holding it back. Won't astound everyone, but is worth most people's time and cash.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , An admirable throwback RPG, These days, it's unusual for me to actively seek out role-playing games. The allure of embarking on a grand adventure is still strong as ever, and I love assembling and growing attached to a crew of characters, but the sheer time commitment can prove insurmountable. With that in mind, it makes sense that Shiness -- an action-RPG funded partially through Kickstarter -- was able to draw me in., For one, the game isn't too terribly long. I was able to hit the end credits in something like 15 hours, spread over a week, and I've since come back to suss out more of the lore-dense world. During a busy release schedule like the one we're currently knee deep in, that's about the ideal length., The other major thing going for Shiness? Combat. It takes an arena fighting game approach, enabling you (and also your foes) to perform combos, block, parry, cast spells, and even tag in teammates. As someone who tends to grow tired of less active RPGs, that design choice was an absolute godsend.

Early on, I feared Shiness might buckle under its own weight, both as a moderately-sized RPG from an indie studio and as an ambitious crowdfunded project. It doesn't make a great first impression., There are lots of moving parts, some of which aren't up to par in terms of execution, and some of which are simply dated. You'll solve rudimentary puzzles by weighing down switches with rocks, or by routing colored energy beams between nodes. You'll sit through uncomfortably still cutscenes in which characters stand there, chatting at length. You'll wonder if things are ever going to improve. They will., The game's fantasy setting and anthropomorphic characters stem from a manga; in my case, that meant I didn't fully grasp who was doing what or why at first. I'm still sort of hazy, even now, though some of that is intentional. Shiness throws you right in with two protagonists, Chado and Poky, crashing their airship in an unwelcoming land. It's not that we haven't seen warring kingdoms, elemental spirits, or floating islands before, but I struggled to keep up with the menagerie of proper nouns., , The short of it is that Chado (amusingly pronounced "Shadow") can see and speak with the Shiness, a spirit of great importance and the impetus for him getting caught up in a wider conflict., Truth be told, you can get along fine with Shiness even if you skim through its familiar, text-heavy narrative. The story was serviceable enough to keep my attention, but I found the generally lovely art direction, pleasant music, and engaging combat system to be the true motivating forces., The game is split into open-ended but discrete zones that are conjoined by loading screens. The general flow goes a little something like this: You'll catch wildlife for parts you can sell or barter with to acquire better gear; strike monsters to initiate closed-arena fights; and use character-specific abilities to circumvent obstacles. Some areas are wide open fields, others are snowy mountains, and others still are light dungeons. Aside from a few instances where I was utterly stuck on how to proceed due to vague instructions, I found the pacing to be great and the constant variety of landscapes surprising., The other high point is the fighting itself. Shiness hinges its combat system on punches, kicks, blocks, dodge rolls, and parries, as well as RPG-staple elements like water, earth, and fire that can be refueled by "channeling" at the appropriate time. There's... a lot to learn. You'll recruit a five-character party, but you can only ever have three active members as you roam the world, and fights are one-on-one (with your two pals buffing you, or tagging in as needed). By the end, you'll need proficiency with all of those aspects and fast reflexes, particularly when it comes to the brutally unforgiving multi-phase bosses., , In general, Shiness does a decent job of keeping you on your toes without feeling too overwhelming or unfair, but certain enemies do have a tendency to use spammy tactics, forcing you to play similarly or stockpile healing items. It's also not as visually polished as it could be. From the outside coming in, my big concern for the game was that the combat would eventually become stale, but it ended up being intricate and demanding enough to hold my interest the whole way through., I appreciated that the more drawn-out, fetch-some-trinket quests are largely relegated to side activities, helping to maintain a brisk critical path. But part of that quick pace can also regrettably be attributed to uninspired puzzles, which ask so little of players as to feel obvious and boring., All told, Shiness is an uneven adventure, but one I'm glad I undertook. While it's too ambitious for its own good, deep down, and despite some hard-to-overlook faults, you can just sense that this was a passion project. I'm not sure if Enigami will get to make a sequel, but if it does, I'd be up for it., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Shiness: The Lightning Kingdom reviewed by Jordan Devore, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Who do you voodoo? Voodoo won't woo you, With the release of Banjo Kazooie-inspired Yooka Laylee, the upcomingCrash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy, and the revival of Psychonauts, 3D platformers are re-emerging in mainstream gaming. Whether this will just be a short-lived nostalgia trip for gaming as a whole or if the genre is here to stay remains to be seen, but a number of re-releases have given us a chance to re-evaluate old classics or even have a first crack at the more niche titles that slipped by us., Originally an Xbox exclusive released back in 2003, Voodoo Vincenever received more than a cult following, failing to garner the widespread acclaim that its peers got. Myself a lifelong fan of 3D platforming collect-a-thons, I was eager for a chance to not only play but review one I missed. Unfortunately, Voodoo Vincefails to make the big-league cut withPsychonautsandBanjo Kazooie, instead faltering to the practice squad among the likes of Croc: Legend of the Gobbosand Blinx: The Time Sweeper., , 

The colorful art, mascot character, and unique premise of using voodoo dolls is an alluring facade that seduces you in, but its charm is left at the door. Or at least I wish it did. The premise and exposition is all rushed in the first three minutes like a dishonest husband trying to change the subject when asked about what he was doing until 3:00am. It goes by so fast I could only reiterate what Vince himself says: "Um...okay.", Basically, a woman named Madam Charmaine runs a voodoo shop and owns magical Zombie Dust that the main antagonist, Kosmo the Inscrutable, wants and finally manages to steal thanks to his goons. The Zombie Dust isn't really explained but meant to be understood as a source of power the yet-unseen bad guy wants for no real reason. There is no further plot development until the end of the game, just occasional cutscenes of Vince and Kosmo, who looks like Sheen from Jimmy Neutron, tossing dated and unfunny (even in 2003) insults at each other. Other characters appear in a single level and have no bearing on the overall plot, serving as mere quest givers and targets of Vince's impotent vocal jabs., Not all games need to have developing narratives or complex character development, but when it's as bare as this, there is no foundation on which to establish character traits and from which to deviate from for humorous effect. Psychonautshas a very simple plot and one-note characters, but they are defined enough that their interactions are like that of aluminium and bromine, whereas Voodoo Vince's characters react like water and oil. Instead of comedy derived from each characters' inherent nature, we get surface-level breath insults and literal toilet humor., The aesthetic of Voodoo Vinceis its strongest point, including a fantastic remastering job. Vince himself looks great and he fits in the colorful world quite nicely. Playing this game in 1080p at 60fps sometimes made me forget it was released in the same year as 2 Fast 2 Furious. Most of the enemy designs are bland, but I do like the redneck alligators and the "yiiip" sound they make, even if it perhaps too easy a design., , Considering masterful sound design and thematic music were critical in making games like Super Mario 64and Banjo Kazooieso engaging, I had higher expectations than I realized for Voodoo Vince. While the voice acting is actually pretty good, you forget about it since the writing and humor are so poor. The soundtrack, however, was unexpectedly dull. When you visit locations like a carnival, a Louisiana swamp, and a haunted house, you would imagine some catchy music would accompany the levels to help sell the atmosphere. Instead the music is royalty-free tier without much variation, at best sounding like it belongs in The Sims. The sounds of attacking and picking up the few collectibles lack that oomph-factor, failing to entice you to collect more like the eggs in Banjo Kazooie do., So then, with a throwaway plot and average aesthetic, we're left to rely on the gameplay alone for entertainment. At its core, Voodoo Vinceis a 3D platformer with collectibles and puzzle elements. Aside from moving and jumping, you can glide to gain more distance and perform either a slap or spin attack. Pressing both of the triggers will unleash a special voodoo power, which will play a cute animation where Vince injures himself, killing all the enemies in range. Unique actions are all performed in context-sensitive locations. You can collect more voodoo powers for special animations, such as Vince pooping in an outhouse and killing enemies with his stinky green gas, but they are merely different animations that have the same function., Other collectibles are bottles of Zombie Dust which give you extra health when you collect 100 and Skull Pages which, upon collecting all in a particular level, place a pink skull on the map that you must race to collect and gain extra meter for your voodoo power. On top of mediocre collection sounds, they aren't placed in thoughtful ways that test your platforming skills, and the skull races are downright annoying., Beads dropped from regular enemies charge your voodoo powers, but you'll usually avoid confrontation due to rudimentary and boring combat. Furthermore, voodoo powers don't harm bosses, so you won't really need the extra meter. And since most of your deaths will come from falling into bottomless pits rather than from the combat you'll avoid, you won't need extra health all that much either. So why collect them? I collected them all in my 100% playthrough of the game, and there is no reward nor even any sort of acknowledgment of your achievement. Collect the new voodoo powers if you're curious to see different animations, I guess., , I harp so much on collectibles because they extend an otherwise short game and collecting them is tedious rather than challenging or fun. They distract from the strongest point of the gameplay, the okonomiyaki-style level variety. Nearly each level is unique in its goals and puzzles, which in itself is interesting and makes the whole playthrough moderately enjoyable. The problem is none of the elements are around long enough to develop or compound into interesting mechanics you use through the game. They are over as soon as you understand what they are doing, and not all of them are fun., In one level early on, you have to carry a fuel tank from the bottom of a tall chamber to the very top, using elevators and avoiding fire, which is as fun as it sounds. Any wrong move makes the tank explode, sending you back to the start or to the halfway point where you can get another. Dropping a pixel of height makes it explode, and even standing too close to the wall on an elevator will cause the tank to clip on the way down and explode. You have to get past fire that spurts out on a timer, a mechanic as old as platformers themselves., Other levels featuring a plane to fly around obstacles and an on-rails shooter are more entertaining, but their simplicity is nothing to write home about. You'd think some of them would explore the idea of harming Vince as a means to injure enemies, since the makers thought the idea had enough potential to warrant a voodoo doll as a main character, but that element is never used in a puzzle context., Searching for what made this game get a cult following, I thought perhaps it would be clever boss battles. They are unique in appearance, but in function they are not enthralling encounters. If you believe in the idea of bosses being a test of the abilities you have learned, you'll be disappointed as you just use basic actions known from the start, since you don't develop or learn any new skills throughout the game., , Bosses do not rely on your combat ability and, as previously mentioned, cannot be harmed by voodoo powers. There is one way to attack each, and you perform that same action three times with minimal development. The bosses may walk faster or throw a bit more debris, but that's it. You clear each by finding a way to harm Vince, using the power of voodoo to transmit that injury to the boss, which you'll often forget since that idea is not explored elsewhere except in those voodoo power animations. Attacks from the boss hurt Vince, but don't in-turn hurt the boss, weirdly., What little puzzle-solving or challenge there may be in the game is often explained away as soon as the level loads. Madam Charmaine narrates the level introduction, laying out exactly what you have to do. Bosses are no exception, where she'll explain how to win but not the act of harming Vince. Some of the "puzzles" such as shooting Vince at a certain target consume a lot of time if you miss. Others that make you perform the same action multiple times are tedious even if you never mess up, such as a level where you have to platform around the entire circumference of a room to hit a switch at least three times, and then a fourth time to get to the exit just beyond the switch., With lackluster plot, awful comedy, and shallow gameplay, I just don't see where the following comes from.Voodoo Vinceshould be commended for trying to add variety and humor, but ultimately the execution is not there. Perhaps harsh on a game that is no worse than mediocre, I did experience brief nuggets of bliss, but they were rare. More often than not you'll be frustrated, leading you to believe you're the real victim when Vince sticks pins into himself.

Vroom in the Night Skyis not only the worst game on the Nintendo Switch, but easily one of the worst games I've ever had the displeasure of reviewing. This game is so bad, I can't imagine how or why Nintendo allowed it to be sold on its marketplace aside from the fact it needed more content on the console. That or someone held a gun to Reggie's head until he agreed to let them sell the game on the eShop (take note indie devs)., In this hot trash you play as a witch that rides through the air not on her trusty broom, which she has with her, but various scooters. That sounds funny and silly, right? Like, how can you fuck that up? I'd like to imagine the developers at Poisoft had a brainstorming session to come up with every way possible and then implemented them into the game., Your goal in this garbage game is to fight with the slippery imprecise controls to fly through and/or shoot missiles at giant circles with stars in them while being barked at in horribly translated broken English by a flying creature and an evil witch that poses no actual threat at all but for some reason spawns on every stage. You can also pick up or shoot stardusts, which are also earned by doing 'cool moves' like braking and 'not driving an airplane into skyscrapers ending your miserable life.' These stardusts act as currency that can be used to buy other bikes that control even worse than the one you start with, but hey they go faster so I guess that is a win, right?, , The stages in Vroom in the Night Skyare all big open squares filled with a few obstacles here and there, some of which even have textures. Can you believe it? But they all look like something you'd expect to find in a game on the original PlayStation or even the N64, as they are all blocky and hideous., Vroom features the much-hyped HD Rumble, which means your controller constantly rumbles in the exact same way the entire time you're accelerating your dumbass witch through the air. While this feels good against your nipples, clitoris, and dad-hole, it can't really get the job done as the Nintendo Switch Joy-Cons don't work when placed inside of yourself, as I've proven. Also, by the time I was done playing the game my hands were tingling and exhausted from the constant rumbling., Maybe the most laughable part of Vroom in the Night Sky is the localization, which is the proverbial cherry on top of this shitty cake. I've played plenty of bad localizations in my day, but this is easily the worst. It's so grammatically broken it rarely even makes sense, pending you can read past the typos. Yes, they didn't even bother to spell check it, let alone pay someone to localize it properly., , Do you ever think to yourself "I wonder what Kirby music would sound like if played on a Casio keyboard by a deaf geriatric at a Russian flea market?" Then you'll absolutely adore the soundtrack of Vroom in the Night Sky. All of your favorite MIDI sounds are back, and they can only be heard in this Nintendo Switch exclusive. Okay, maybe it isn't that bad, but it is pretty awful., You know the most messed up thing though? I played through this entire game and even got all but one of the in-game achievements because I'm clearly a masochist. It really pains me to say that getting the last achievement would certify me as "skilled Magical Girl" and I don't think I'll ever get it. I just can't bring myself to grind through more of Vroom in the Night Skyjust to buy all the shitty mopeds just to get a meaningless reward that probably changes nothing., The Nintendo Seal of Quality is long dead, but at least you can take your shovelware on the go now. Checkmate, Steam., [This review is based on a retail build of the game gifted to me by my friendenemyNintenDaan.], Vroom in the Night Sky reviewed by Jed Whitaker, The lowest of the low. There is no potential, no skill, no depth and no talent. This game have nothing to offer the world, and will die lonely and forgotten.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Blink and you'll miss it, Hotline Miami was an instant hit upon its release in 2012. Mixing a unique style with gratuitous violence and a self-reflective story, the game asked players to question why they were so willing to murder in video games all the time. Was it something to do with a damaged psyche or was it more animalistic?, While the sequel failed to live up to the original, not many other developers have even attempted to tackle the same style of gameplay. Were definitely seen overhead shooters and brawlers before, but nothing that captures the intense difficulty and careful planning that defined the Hotline Miami experience. Team Shifty has taken notice, though, and is looking to up the ante., Being sold on the idea that this is Hotline Miami-like, Mr. Shifty basically apes the gameplay from Dennaton Games brawler and introduces teleportation. Why, exactly? That doesnt matter; youve got goons to beat up!

The plot behind Mr. Shifty is that youre a thief with teleportation abilities breaking into a highly secured tower to steal a plutonium core. The why for this plan isnt ever revealed; the only information you have is that Shifty is an expert at what he does. Being guided by the hilarious Nyx, Shifty encounters a bunch of armed guards that he easily dispatches with some punches., Saying the plotline is important would be wrong. Mr. Shifty presents itself in a comical manner and never beats you over the head with philosophical statements about violence. Instead, this is more like the PG-13 version of an X-rated film; people definitely die, but you wont be seeing dismembered limbs or spurts of blood anywhere., Your commander, Nyx, basically tells you to kick ass, kick some more ass, and to keep kicking ass when stuff goes wrong. She is no-nonsense and self-assured, cracking jokes about how your plan is "certain death" or how youre encountering "minimal resistance." It works to make you chuckle and stop focusing on the absurdity of each challenge., , The bulk of the game is made up of the same kind of combat challenges from Hotline Miami. You enter rooms loaded with guards and need to figure out how to eliminate them without getting killed. You can attack with your fists or pick up weapons to dispatch enemies. One shot (or punch) means death, so you cant just blitz through an area freely. What does change up the combat is your teleportation ability, which allows you to phase through certain walls or quickly dodge bullets., Along with that, you can build up a meter that allows you to slow down time. After enough consecutive kills, youll be given what amounts to an extra hit point. When a bullet comes close to you, time will slow down and youll be able to run away or destroy everyone on screen with quick attacks., Armed with those techniques, you can be more reckless than in Hotline Miami. The combat takes a tone that is faster-paced and more reaction-based. You dont need to spend nearly as much time scoping out areas since, if trouble comes barreling towards you, you often can quickly shift through a wall to defend yourself or take a bullet and destroy everyone around you., , It makes for cool scenarios where youll take out a couple of guys, see maybe seven running at you, and then phase away to flank them. There are also moments that are straight out of The Matrix where youll dodge a bullet, slowmo around the room, and smack some jerk out a window. The only way this is letdown is how slow the AI is to react to your movements (even without the slowmo). If it werent for your single health point, Mr. Shifty would be fairly easy., Enemies love to funnel through single doors, so you can often take out a dude, phase through a wall, and then just wait for the goons to pour in. This results in the game mostly feeling stress free. The enemies do eventually give way to fools with grenades and that brings about the best change to the formula: destructible environments., While the AI doesnt get better (those grenade dudes love to blow themselves up), in later sections, hiding behind walls isnt a sure thing. Sometimes a guy wielding a rocket launcher will blow open your only defense, meaning enemies will now funnel through the much bigger hole to attack. This near-suicidal dedication to assaulting you can be used to your advantage as enemies are able to kill each other., , Some of the later "puzzles" even focus on that, surrounding you with heavy brute enemies and a lone guy with a rocket launcher. While you can take out every last person with your fists, clearly tricking the RPG man into blowing up his comrades is the way to go. Rocket turrets also present a similar challenge, albeit without as many extraneous enemies around., Even with those kinds of scenarios, the combat eventually becomes repetitive. While Mr. Shifty does introduce newer enemy types at a decent pace, the difficulty resorts to simply increasing the number of on-screen foes rather than organically presenting a challenge. Youll die solely because you failed to react fast enough or there was no reprieve from the onslaught of bad guys., It doesnt help that checkpoints are room-based. In the final two levels, youll go through a hundred enemies in a single room before you get a chance to relax. While it can make you feel like a badass to conquer such stark opposition, it mostly just feels tedious. You often want battles to end solely so you can move on and get over with it., , I feel this is exactly the same problem Hotline Miami 2 had: the game is too long. I know four hours isnt some epic journey or even that long, but it stops presenting unique challenges after 12 levels. Once you reach the end of Act II, youve seen all of the tricks Mr. Shifty has to offer. There is even a fake-out ending with the final boss that could have worked to perfectly wrap up the whole affair., Instead, the game throws an additional six levels of goons to go through that culminates in a hilariously easy final encounter. After that, it just ends without much fanfare. Nyx doesnt chime in to congratulate herself and Shifty doesnt even say anything. It sucks the wind out of the whole ordeal., It doesnt help that the art direction doesnt change between each area. I suppose you can make the comparison to something like Die Hard with the tower youre infiltrating, but youre never looking at a different theme for any level. They all have the same corporate building aesthetic and it drags on., , The music is also the same for every level. Hotline Miami punctuated its grotesque displays of carnage with an equally thumping soundtrack. While the savagery was brutal, you often felt compelled to kill because of how primal the soundtrack was. Mr. Shifty sort of sounds like James Bond, but never mixes it up., There is a pretty neat theme for the bigger encounters and Im not even saying that the music is bad, but it doesnt have the variety that helped carry Hotline Miami through similar lulls in its gameplay. Taken on its own merits, it just becomes stale after a while., That really is the biggest complaint I have with Mr. Shifty: it becomes formulaic. It definitely is fun and I like how creative some of the fights are, but when the cleverness dries up and the theme never changes, its hard to stay enthused about the whole affair., While the combat may have some depth and the game is certainly tongue-in-cheek, it just doesnt present enough new ideas to sustain itself. I think its worth a playthrough, but I dont believe well be talking about Mr. Shifty for years to come. Just as quickly as Shifty himself enters and leaves a room, so too does this game enter and exit your mind., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Mr. Shifty reviewed by Peter Glagowski, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , I have two guns, one for each of ya, I'll spare you the sermon on the wonders and shortcomings of virtual reality this time., Robo Recall lets you beat robots to death with their own arms to an '80s soundtrack. It also happens to be a touch-based VR game that you need expensive hardware for.

While Superhot VRis still my go-to "you have to check out VR" game, Robo Recallcomes very close. With an intuitive system that uses two Touch remotes as hands, grabbing and firing guns is as simple as gripping them and pressing the trigger. It's crazy to see how far light gun games have come in my lifetime, from the NES Zapper, to the Wii, to a decked-out, beautiful Epic Games production., Recallgreatly benefits from an over-the-top arcade setup that hearkens back to '90s lightgun shooters like Revolution X, with benefits like grabbing infinite guns from your holster at any time. There's never a dull moment, as you could be grabbing a robot, ripping its head off, tossing enemies into each other for explosion multipliers, grabbing bullets out of the air and throwing them back, or going full-on akimbo with your guns (sideways or crossed if that's your thing)., There's a few short motion and marksman tutorials, but Recallliterally puts the game in your hands. Within seconds I have to decide what the best course of action was from the choices listed above, and that doesn't include defensive options like dodging or moving around with the teleport system (controlled by the left analog stick). If you aren't used to Touch-based experiences it'll take you a while to acclimate, almost like you're learning how to use two analog sticks or a keyboard and mouse in tandem for the first time. Like many VR games that have dropped in the past year or so I love that feeling of lawlessness, like I'm starting from square one again., , All of that freedom comes at a price though. I found myself bumping more in-house items than ever before, and I have a decent room-scale space. The tether of the Rift also bothered me for the first time, as the game is heavily built around 360 degrees and given the fast pace I whipped the cord around a few times and had to step or jump over it. This is something that took me 30 minutes to get used to, tops, but if you're in a smaller space your mileage may vary., I know it's an action romp but I wanted to see a more heavily involved narrative beyond "stop these renegade robots from running amok." Every level or so you'll get a few bits of narration from your AI overlord, but it's simply not enough. You'll enter this universe by way of the natural assistance of the VR headset and the close-up action, but those off-moments (like when you're messing around in the hub) need a little more spark. The writing teeters on the edge of annoying or meme-heavy, but never crosses that line., These are all just minor annoyances, but the way Robo Recallhandles progress is its only truly weak element as it seems to be at odds with itself. It's basically an arcade shooting gallery with all of the bonuses that modern high-end VR benefits from, but there's a strange weapon upgrade system that ultimately feels pointless. Players earn "star" ratings, and you can use those to bump up each piece of kit a tiny bit, granting access to bonuses like laser sights or more stability. All of that should have just been unlocked from the start in favor of expanding the campaign beyond three main areas, all of which are city-based., Robo Recall's few flaws just feed into the notion that I want more of it. I'm sure it cost a pretty penny for Epic to develop, and with the install base right now of VR, it may not even fully pay off. But if more deep-pocket developers are able to take risks like this and make more of these pushes, we might see VR hitting the mainstream yet., [This review is based on a retail build of the game downloaded for free with an Oculus Touch.], Robo Recall reviewed by Chris Carter, Impressive effort with a few noticeable problems holding it back. Won't astound everyone, but is worth most people's time and cash.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Mamba No. 6, Locomotion is something that far too many video games take for granted. Standard fare for movement is often reduced to holding an analog stick in a direction and you'll get where you need to be. This approach is so ingrained in game design that when something as experimental as Snake Passcomes along, it sticks out as a stark reminder of what developers could be doing (not that they all need to be doing it)., There's a certain progression of emotion to playing Snake Pass. First, it's novel. Then, it's brilliant. Then, it's frustrating. Eventually, it's an amalgamation of all that other stuff but maybe more tedious than anything.

The mechanics of being a serpentine and your tactile connection to them are the core of Snake Pass. It's also the absolute best the game has to offer. Forward movement of Noodle (the snake's name is Noodle) requires holding a trigger and (excuse the pun) snaking the analog stick left to right to simulate a sidewinding motion. The other trigger can be used to grip, a way to cling tightly to whatever obstacle you're coiled around. A face button is dedicated to lifting Noodle's head, a maneuver that often makes just the slightest bit of difference when trying to ascend a ledge., It's all so goddamn smart. Neatly slithering across the ground is good and all, but weaving through bamboo poles to further stabilize yourself is downright skillful and savvy. There's a learning curve to Snake Passand it won't be long until you feel like you've mastered it. You've really got the hang of this Being A Snake thing!, Humility will come swiftly as Snake Passis a fickle mistress. The difficulty ramps quickly as you suddenly realize that you definitely do not got the hang of this Being A Snake thing. I'm not convinced the obstacles get significantly tougher, though; it seems that they just get bigger, extending the amount of time you have to be proficient at snake stuff. The unforgiving (yet perfectly realistic) physics will probably cause Noodle to eventually lose his grip. Snake Pass' hardest challenges are the ones where Noodle is unsafe the longest, not ones that require tricky and clever movements., , The reason for all this snaking is in the name of collectible hunting. Each ofSnake Pass' 15 levels has3 keystones that are necessary to proceed, along with 20 orbs and 5 golden coins. The latter are completely optional. The coins usually are found alongside the hardest platforming in the game, and the orbs are just sort of barely off the beaten path. Neither of these are particularly important as they don't tie into a reward of any kind. They're just a pair of statistics to max out on the level select screen., This leads to Snake Pass' greatest disconnect from a design perspective. Combing the environment for a missing collectible or two is prohibitively taxing given how long it takes to retread areas you've already explored. But, Snake Passtreats these with relative indifference so maybe you should too. Beating the game endows Noodle with an ability to see all the collectibles in any given level, but that's probably of little consequence for those who are content just getting through the game once., Noodle isn't completely alone in this venture. He has a hummingbird sidekick. Doodle (the hummingbird's name is Doodle) serves to add some flavor text throughout the adventure, but his more important use is that he can lift Noodle's tail. This can help get him up to a hard-to-reach area, but it might also shift the snake's body in a way that causes him to go tumbling. Tread carefully., , If Doodle is Noodle's greatest ally, then the camera is his greatest adversary. On too many occasions, the view will be just off enough that it's impossible to know which micro-movement is necessary. In particularly perilous situations, you might have both index fingers on a trigger, the left thumb on the left stick, the right thumb on a face button to hold Noodle's head up, and find yourself needing to also move the camera with the right stick. It's irritating, especially when you know you were in position to succeed., The edge to all those frustrations is eventually dulled, though. You come to accept Snake Passfor what it is, you learn to expect whatever niggling annoyance is going to happen next. It's all easy enough to come to terms with, like Snake Passis some sort of anesthesia. More than anything, I just found myself wishing it were over sooner; fifteen levels is a lot of ground to cover, especially when the game does little to meaningfully vary gameplay., Snake Pass' legacy won't be any of that negative stuff I mentioned. It'll be remembered as a quirky thing that's an exemplary example of how games can offer non-traditional experiences. And, to be quite honest, I love it for that. I thoroughly enjoyed my first hour or so as I leaned into its serpentine sensibilities. But, Snake Pass' choice of animal is unfortunately fitting as this game just doesn't have legs., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Snake Pass reviewed by Brett Makedonski, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Like browsing the net with your friends, only with less porn, Listen up fam, if you're into making dank memes and have a few equally 'lulz' friends who want to create them sitting around a TV via their cell phones, then this is the game for you. I guess?, In a world that practically speaks, eats, and breathes in memes to the point that cartoon frogs are considered a symbol of antisemitism, charging money for a party game that equates to creating memeswasnot a great idea; it was abad one, in fact.

First, let me say I've played and enjoyed most of the Jackbox Party Packtitles. Sure, plenty of them are simple, but many have enough going for them that my friends and I want to go back to these games whenever we have a get-together. I can honestly say I don't feel that way about Use Your Words., UseYour Wordsworks much like the Jackboxgames in that players must use a secondary device (typically a phone) to open a web browser and connect to the servers to play along with the game on whatever television, monitor, or live stream they're in front of., The game then presents either non-English clips where you must fill in the subtitles for a section, comical pictures to provide newspaper headlines, fill-in-the-blank questions (many of which are pop-culture references), and a lightning round that is straight up the lightning round from Family Feud, only three questions long. Players must type their responses into their phones and then vote on their favorite at the end of each round. Get your answers picked the most and you win, unless of course you pick house answers that deduct points from your total., , And that is it. While it's an alright distraction, the same thing could be achieved by sitting at a computer and browsing Google images or YouTubing foreign films and quipping on them., I suppose Use Your Wordstakes the work out of the process for you and tallies a score at least but... oh Mylanta, I just described reddit! In all seriousness, the whole game is just too shallow to be recommendable. On top of that, the amount of time it takes to cycle through answers after each prompt feels a bit longer than would be ideal., In a worldwhere $25 gets you five diverse party games in each of the Jackbox Party Packcollections, asking $15 for one flimsy game is just offensive., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Use Your Words reviewed by Jed Whitaker, Went wrong somewhere along the line. The original idea might have promise, but in practice the game has failed. Threatens to be interesting sometimes, but rarely.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Not a shitload of fuck, I may not be the biggest fan of the Angry Video Game Nerd, but I've seen enough of the web series to get a good idea of what the Nerd is all about. I enjoy some aspects of it, such as his wild facial expressions and his critiques of older game mechanics. He makes many interesting observations about the games I used to play, and showcases many others I'm glad I missed out on. The jokes are usually hit-or-miss, however., With a video game version of his show, I would expect a nice mix of everything the Nerd stands for, and that's sort of what we get. James Rolfe as a sprite walks around with his signature exaggerated grimace, there's a bit of observational humor regarding the habits of retro video games, and tons of references to the show itself and the types of games he's often found playing. But in this case, the jokes missed a bit too often.

There's a conundrum with making a game based on a show that points out bad design choices in other games. Do you make it fun to play while discussing the things that other titles do wrong? Or do you make it poorly designed on purpose in order to highlight those issues for the player? With AVGN Adventures and its sequel, they sort of took the middle ground with an adequately designed platformer that also purposely throws in problematic elements, and I'm not sure how effective it is., Enemy placement is meant to be frustrating, powerups are placed in unfortunate areas rendering them virtually useless, and blocks and traps that can kill in one hit are used in overabundance. These things were no doubt done on purpose to emulate the games that the Nerd likes to yell about, but they're still not particularly fun. Most levels are reduced to a frenzied race to the next checkpoint in order to stay alive., , The plot is simple enough. Alien forces turn everyone in the world into pixelated monsters. Only the Nerd is spared, who wakes up in his room and embarks on a quest to collect the six pieces of the Sexforce (perhaps a cleverer joke than I first thought). Along the way, he'll constantly be running into his nemesis, the Nostalgia Critic, along with familiar faces from the web series like Board James and the Nerdy Turd., The map is laid out like the Super Mario Bros. 3 overworld. The player can visit one of five areas, each containing three levels plus a boss fight. These include a Japanese-themed shoot 'em up stage, an homage to the electric seaweed level from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, a Ghouls 'n Ghosts-ish horror area, a board game world, and an area inspired by Angry Video Game Nerd: The Movie. There's also a bonus Virtual Boy level before the final boss. Overall, it will take most players about two to three hours to complete., Individual stages try to vary up the gameplay with new mechanics, like shoot 'em up sections, driving segments, Portal-esque warping, and more. But for the most part, it's a standard platformer, often with hordes of enemies ready to strike from every direction and one-hit-kill death blocks aplenty. The death blocks seemed to be a common complaint about the first game, and the trailer promises there are less of them this time around, but I'm not so sure that's an accurate statement. They are everywhere., Once again, the Nerd is armed with his trusty NES Zapper to fight off enemies, who explode in a mess of blood and guts when killed. This time around, there are no unlockable characters. Instead, the Nerd can collect his stuff which has been scattered all over the place, like the Power Glove and the Super Scope. These act as upgrades to make him more powerful and grant new abilities., , There are also a few temporary powerup items, but they're mostly useless. The bouncy balls are basically a joke item, and the badge that upgrades the Zapper is really only useful in a few situations. The f-bombs are handy for taking out powerful foes, but the weird placement of f-bombs within each stage meant that I very rarely was able to actually use them. The only reliable powerup is the beer keg, which fully restores health., Some of the boss fights were interesting, like the one at the end of Monster Madness (the Ghouls 'n Ghosts inspired area) which had multiple forms covering the gamut of stereotypical Halloween monsters. Others were simply an exercise in frustration, particularly the boss of the Japanese area that takes place upon treadmills. The mid-bosses, which include the Nostalgia Critic, Board James, and Nerdy Turd, all play out exactly the same. They're essentially the Protoman fights from Mega Man, just running back and forth shooting at each other until someone wins. The final boss was also surprisingly easy., As far as the jokes go, they got a couple chuckles out of me. Standout goofs included the introduction of the tanuki (giant tanuki balls will get me every time!) and the end of the Monster Madness boss fight, which was probably my favorite moment. Other than that, the humor mostly revolved around excessive swearing and poop jokes, with the occasional mocking of terrible mechanics, so if that kind of stuff is your jam then you'll probably get a kick out of it., For the sequel, they decided to forgo the elaborate curse word generator after every death in favor of an expletive-rich one-liner spouted by the Nerd at the end of each level. This means reloading after dying happens much quicker, which is nice. The one-liners are often rather predictable though (the sewer levels are literally shitty, we get it). Interestingly, the only levels he didn't have one-liners for were some of the Monster Madness stages, probably because they were actually great and he knew it., , The critique of retro mechanics is the thing I was anticipating the most as I started playing, since the web series hinges on that very concept. There were a few clever moments, like when he points out a block-sized pit that he can simply run over, questioning why it's even there at all. I would have enjoyed seeing more stuff like this., Other such moments fall flat when he decides to mock mechanics that are actually pretty cool. For example, the Monster Madness area starts out entirely in black and white with a grainy filter, with later levels incorporating a color-changing mechanic to reveal new platforms. I thought it was a neat idea, but the Nerd firmly disagreed, exclaiming, What kind of stupid game has a color button? There's also a level with gravity-flipping mechanics that seem to be taken directly from VVVVVV, to which he complains, The gravity flips every time I jump? What is this bullshit? Well, Nerd, it's called VVVVVV and it's awesome! Maybe these were references to other games of lesser quality that I never played, but I kept wondering why they weren't making fun of actually bad design decisions and instead chose to mock things that worked., While I've talked extensively about the things that didn't quite do it for me, I will say this: if you enjoyed the first game, or if you're a diehard fan of the web series or the movie, you will more than likely appreciate this sequel. For everyone else, including those like me with only a passing interest in the web series, it's a very hit-or-miss experience. If you enjoy potty humor and language filled with more fucks and shits than you can shake a stick at, then Angry Video Game Nerd II is definitely for you. If not, then I might suggest looking elsewhere to get your platforming fix, because while the actual gameplay is decent once all the humor has been removed from the equation, it's still not the greatest., At least it's not a shitload of fuck. The trailer got that part right anyway., Angry Video Game Nerd II: ASSimilation reviewed by Ben Davis, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Here comes a new challenger! , "Smash clone" is an ugly generalization. It's usually given to titles in a subgenre which, honestly, should be a lot more prominent than it is. Despite many tries, non-Nintendo developers have yet to nail the platform fighter. What most of these developers fail to realize is beneath SuperSmash Bros.' mascot appeal lies a base appealing to both casual party goers and more dedicated players., Rivals of Aether is going to mean more to the latter. Welcoming comparisons to the aforementioned Super Smash Bros. (even going so far as to challenge it in some areas), Rivals of Aether is a platform fighter stripping away most of Smash Bros' zanier elements while focusing on a stronger, speedier, brutal core.

The land of Aether is separated into warring elemental factions: Water, Fire, Earth, and Air. When a shadowy force threatens the word, the titular rivals jump into action. Choosing one of the six characters -- with two unlocking later -- throws you into Rivals of Aether'sfrenetic gameplay in no time. Character design is fun, and I'm a particular fan of playing as a whale with arms and legs, but each of their play styles will be immediately recognizable to anyone who's played a fighting game before. There's the slow but hard hitting character, the tricky character with delayed actions, characters who set up traps, and fast but less strong types. But what makes Rivals stand above other standard fighting game archetypes, however, are the elemental tricks., As mentioned, each character has an element that factors into their move set and tends to have an effect on the stage as well. For example, Zetterburn (the fire lion) has a down special fire punch which not only can strike the opponent but leaves lingering fire on the ground causing burn damage for a few seconds. These also include passive abilities like Wrastor's air current side special which helps him traverse faster or Forsburn's obscuring smoke. Before I knew it,Rivalshad eased me into even more competitive play than I had been accustomed in this genre thanks to not only factoring in how much damage each hit will do (and subsequently how far the opponent will fly) but where to initiate the attack. Although the objective is to damage your opponent until they eventually go flying off the stage, a la Super Smash Bros, there's an impressive meta game in the area around each character. Do I lay a one of Orcane's puddle bubble traps on the edge of the stage or do I try and do as much damage as possible and factor that trap into a combo?, , Playing into this deeper metagame are the parries. Eschewing a traditional block, each character has a two-frame delayed parry which, when successful, will briefly stun the opponent and opens them to a counterattack. Parrying is deeply satisfying as each one is accompanied by a "ding" and a glowing circle. It's appropriate since every hit feels just as weighted and important. For the first few hours, I played Rivals of Aether traditionally. Used dodge rolls, parried a few attacks, and relied mostly on my specials and strong attacks (read as: smashes), but the longer I dived in the more its advanced techniques started to reveal themselves. And this is where Rivals truly distances itself from its inspiration., Tutorials go in-depth on more inside baseball terms like "frames" and "hitboxes" (which you can turn on in the training mode), and suggested strategies for each character. Advancing through those open up optional tutorials teaching short hops, wall jumps (there's no ledge grabbing here, instead you have to short hop off the wall to maybe save yourself), and even how to alter the trajectory of the angle you go flying. Whether or not I actually played like one is up for debate, but I felt like a pro. That's something that's never happened to me before. I just wish I was able to take my skills online. Rivals offers ranked and player matches, but I only played a few rounds with a handful of people. Unfortunately, the community isn't full enough just yet to really test out the netcode., While the gameplay is frenetic and fun, Rivals of Aether may not appeal to everyone, however. The frenetic and fast pace can eventually skew into frantic territory as the speed of combat takes some time to get used to (a gamepad is absolutely necessary). And I may really enjoy the arcade feel to its story mode (and more importantly, its endless battle filled Abyss Mode), but some may find its presentation lacking. But there's a ton of personality that comes through its gameplay and how well its weaved into its characters. The 16-bit art style helps each character flourish; especially through elemental attacks. The best example of this is the ice bear, Etalus, who not only turns their fist into ice axes and hammers, but can absorb that ice and give themself giant ice jaws and it's pretty damn cool. Thanks to its tight focus, each character plays and animates as uniquely as this giving Rivals a much grander scale than its humble presentation would imply. Just as its deeper mechanics make itself known the more time is invested, the art flourishes grab your attention more the longer you play., , Thanks to a base inspired by Super Smash Bros., Rivals of Aether is able to dedicate itself to evolving the already familiar mechanics. Rather than break the game into wavedashing or applying directional influence by accident, creating a game with those advances in mind allows Rivals to become a more fully-fleshed out fighter., Instead of dancing around the "is it a fighting game or not?" question plaguing Nintendo's major mascot title for years, Rivals of Aether goes full throttle into the genre and delivers an experience the platform fighting genre deserves., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], Rivals of Aether reviewed by Nick Valdez, A hallmark of excellence. It may have some flaws, but they are negligible to what is otherwise a supreme title.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Kick! Punch! It's all in the mind, Beloved PaRappa the Rapper -- the game credited with birthing the rhythm game genre -- has kicked and punched its way to the PS4 for its 20th anniversary. A vestige of its time, PaRappa represents a colorfully wacky, beanie-wearing, rap-happy teenage life that virtually every '90s kid identifies with., Parappas comeback to the PS4 leaves this rhythm time capsule fairly untouched save for updated crisp graphics and digitally remastered sounds. This is somehow all at once perfect, or terrible, depending on how you look at it.

Lets start with the good. PaRappas original story is charmingly inane, but thats why we love it, and why fans will fall in love again with its 2D paper-like characters. The remastered graphics bring PaRappa and his eclectic friends to life, literally making them look like theyre about to pop off the screen. The music is cleaned up, crisp, and still surprisingly good despite the silliness of the material., Other new touches include a help section that contains some biographical information on the creators and also acts as an in-game manual. Add-on songs are also present, which allow the player to select different background songs to the raps in each level. This was a delightful surprise to me, since I thought these forever died when the PSP Store was taken down. , , Theres also a few new options added to the gameplay, See the beat and Feel the beat. See the beat makes PaRappas little head icon pop to a larger size when you press a button, and Feel the beat essentially vibrates the controller to the beat to help calibrate the player. I found that the icon enlargement for See the beat was actually too distracting for me and ended up turning it off, however Feel the beat was slightly more helpful since it provided a separate set of calibration to the beats., Unfortunately, this is where the believing ends. Despite the crisp graphics, the game itself feels very old, partly because, well, this is pretty much the first rhythm game ever created and weve since been spoiled with new advancements. However, more importantly, the remastered version does not include a calibration setting. This works very much against PaRappas favor as theres an extremely noticeable lag throughout each of the levels, causing havoc when trying to hit the notes on time., , It was bad enough that despite my efforts to recalibrate my brain and timing to match the lag, I still couldnt make it past the fourth level. Eventually it got to the point where I had to physically recalibrate my home theater system to make up for the timing difference so I could finish the game. It was a bit of an antiquated, not-so-charming side effect of an old rhythm game that I wish could have been solved through something like an A/V calibration setting., Speaking of old systems, although I enjoyed looking at the original old-school PaRappa menus, I imagine the interface may be just as confusing to new players as phone booths are to teenagers nowadays. The in-game menu layout is practically completely unchanged, which means that because there are even more options in the remastered version, theres a weird convoluted labyrinth of options to navigate., , As much as I love PaRappa and his quest to find love with Sunny Funny, the experience was significantly marred with the visible lag and the lack of calibration options. For a remastered rhythm game, this is practically a must-have given calibration difficulties with modern televisions. I still enjoyed my time with the updated, clean-looking PaRappa, but I might just go back to playing the PSP version if I got the funky flow..., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher.], PaRappa the Rapper Remastered reviewed by Caitlin Cooke, An exercise in apathy, neither solid nor liquid. Not exactly bad, but not very good either. Just a bit "meh," really.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Big Game Hunting, Games of the hunting genre, often referred to as Monster Hunter clones, are still among those foreign video game curiosities that just can't seem to grab western audiences the way it has in Japan., One of the main reasons why it has not attained the same level of success in the west is that most hunting games have stubbornly clung onto dated conventions set by Monster Hunterback in 2004 and still carry on today., Well, it's 2017 and we need something more modern.

When the first Toukiden came out a few years ago, it provided a hunting game with a satisfying action combat experience from the creators of Dynasty Warriorsseries and featured a very Japanese flavor. In the world of Toukiden 2, it has been two years since the first game and a decade since the "Awakening" when evil Oni (demon) monsters appeared to destroy mankind. The few humans left have only survived thanks to the Slayers, warriors who fight the Oni horde using Samurai weapons and magic., Those who missed out on the first Toukidencan easily just jump into this title without prior knowledge of the story. At its core,Toukiden 2is still a hunting game where you go through the motions: fight monsters, gather items, use items to make better gear, and repeat. However, Omega Force returns again to give the genre a sorely needed improvement to the formula., , Toukiden 2features a new open world map for the single-player story mode, which is a first for the genre, for players to explore and hunt. Previous hunting games only offered small hubs that were more utilitarian wherein players selected missions from a menu. This open world features a small village that serves as a hub for a large map filled with varying terrain and locations.This new feature adds tremendously to the games narrative and world building, since many of these hunting games usually show so very little of the world you live in or are trying to save., The large open map's style leans more towards an MMORPG or Borderlandsthan an open world game like Skyrimwith areas that are only filled with enemies to fight and items to gather.There are large sections of the map known as the Otherworld that are divided in different Ages. These Ages have themes tied into the different past eras of Japan., At first, these areas will be enshrouded by deadly poisonous miasma emitted by the Oni invasion. This serves as a time limit for exploring these areas and its an automatic game over when you are reach the maximum exposure level. These are easily cleared out as you go along the gameto a negligible level., This new open world format breaks up the monotony of item gathering that plagued hunting games. Repeatedly playing the same missions over and over just to farm particular materials (even though the latest Monster Hunter has made that part easier for certain items) has now taken a backseat to the action. Players now have the option to just run outside the gates of the hub village and start heading towards the target item's location. This open concept also has fast travel points that can be found through exploring the map., , The areas might get a little confusing due to areas looking very much the same and players might end up getting lost a lot and having to consult that map often. But once you learn the lay of the land, traversal is a bit easier but consulting the map is still required. Its easier to navigate on the PS Vita version, which has a lot less environmental elements such as trees and rocks, which does not really detract from the experience since they are purely cosmetic., The open world also allows for different RPG-styled quests to be done across the map with the usual fetch quests, scavenger hunts, and "kill X type/amount of enemies." Some of these little quests have their own stories and give the world a bit more life. These quests can get stale due to the limited nature of the quests but there are a reasonable amount they never overstay their welcome. There are also collectibles and regenerating item pickup spots scattered across the map that add incentive for exploration., Ive made the comparisons to Borderlands open world style in Toukiden 2 but the open world is strictly only available in single-player mode. Multiplayer is limited to the Phase Missions which is the traditional mission system found in hunting games and are conducted in small limited sectioned-off areas from the overworld map. This is one of the biggest disappointments in the game and the open world exploration could have been so much fun with other real people, something we can only hope to possibly see in the next iteration of Toukiden., , Toukiden 2is one of those hunting games that actually has a story. It's very much helped by the new open world format that helps in the world building, especially showing how all the places connect together which gives a sense of a world. It takes place in Mahoroba village where the player character is thrust into all kinds of stuff such as internal politics and a bigger plot in the background. The story is decent but enough to get players going onto the next monster to take down., As with the hunting genre, there is no leveling up levels but the Toukiden series has something close to leveling up using Mitamas. These are the souls of fallen warriors, some are based on real-life Japanese historical figures, which can be equipped to provide different battle styles and boosts for your characters, and using them in battle makes them stronger. There are about 200 different Mitamas and equipping each will yield different skills and boosts for combat., Three Mitamas can be equipped in three different slots: Battle Skills, Evasion Skills, and Attack Skills.Mitamas will have different effects and battle styles depending on which slot theyre equipped on. There are about 11 different battle styles: ranging from the general ATK battle style that specializes in attacks, a more defensive battle style like DEF, to the support battle styles like HLG, which focuses on healing. There are all kinds to suit different roles and styles for the right situation., There are over 11 weapons in Toukiden 2 providing different styles of play: from the well-rounded Sword to fast slashing dual Knives to more complicated weapons such as the bow and the rifle. You can somewhat mash your way with some weapons like in the Dynasty Warriors games but some weapons require a good amount of learning and a lot timing. Weapons such as the rifle and bow do not work like they do in shooting games, so you have to time your shots well and learn the particular way the weapons function as well as to effectively use it in combat., , A new feature in Toukiden 2 are Joint Operations, which are points in the open world map where players can run into other online connected human player's AI controlled avatars engaged in combat with a mob of enemies. Once the enemy mob is cleared, the AI controlled avatar will join as a fifth party member which makes fighting large enemies easier. If the character was from a human player, a data exchange will occur. If a player is offline, a generic stock character will be in the Joint Operation., Another new addition in Toukiden 2 is the Demon Hand and functions similarly to the grappling hook-like glowing wrist thing called Thorn from Freedom Wars. This adds vertical movement to the combat such as pulling your character up towards tall enemies to attack higher parts of the Oni. However, it doesnt have that bit in Freedom Wars where you can latch onto the enemy and directly cut off parts., The Demon Hand also has different abilities such as pulling down large enemies and a very useful special move that cuts off an Oni part in one hit. Its also used in the exploration of the overworld which can be useful for the occasional high ledge and crossing over gaps., New smaller features allow players to send out a little upgrade-ablehelper robot that gathers items in real time while in the game. There are also magical foxes called Tenkos that can raised and equipped with Mitamas that can help in combat., , Graphically, the PlayStation 4 version looks slightly better than an early cross-generation game because it is just that -- Toukiden 2 is also on PlayStation 3 (only in Japan) and PlayStation Vita. The environments are a bit plain but the character models are great, which is good because those are what youre gonna be looking at a lot. The performance on PlayStation 4 is great with a very fluid framerate, while the Vita version may dip in the mid 20s from time to time but is still very playable., Like an MMORPG, theres a bit of that jank in the in-game cutscenes. The stories are delivered in a canned manner, due to the games limited set number of character animations. While these seem like primitive in a game that elevates the genre, it gets the job done. The pre-rendered cinematics do look well-made when they pop up from time to time., The voice acting is great, with a Japanese cast featuring a lot of seasoned voice actors that have been in many anime and video games.Toukiden 2could have used an English dub or more subtitles since there is rather charming random in-game chatter from party members in Japanese that I somewhat understand with my very limited beginner Japanese language skills., , Like other similar games, it still takes a while to get going but theres enough new stuff to see and do that can keep players busy while the game slowly opens itself up.Theres a lot in Toukiden 2 -- it is the most accessible and most modern entry in the genre so far. Its the perfect gateway to hunting games that will surely attract newcomers and please fans of the genre., Toukiden 2 is a great leap towards a much-needed evolution, and it dares to add new things and challenge tradition. Hunting games usually get an enhanced edition that adds all kinds of stuff and I eagerly await what Omega Force will bring on next time around. In the mean time, Im gonna play more of this game for a few dozen more hours., Toukiden 2 reviewed by Red Veron, A hallmark of excellence. It may have some flaws, but they are negligible to what is otherwise a supreme title.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Vanity mirror on the wall, who's the biggest bro of them all?, Bro! The Gladiolus DLC just came out bro., Check it bro, you can get a shirtlessoutfit for Gladiolus bro! And it carries over to the maingame!

In a very DLC sort of way, Gladiolus steps away from the core party in Final Fantasy XV proper for a bit (during Chapter 7) -- that's where this episode takes place., It's the Gladiolus show, yes indeed, and all of his raw combat power is showcased in this add-on that sees him undertaking a trial to beef up for Noctis. Strangely, Cor Leonis, someone who was barely touched upon in the campaign is here, and earns his place -- but only just a little. He's one of the most fearsome members of the military sworn to King Regis, but he takes a backseat here to the main bro. His inclusion merely serves as a light level of exposition and feels like a missed opportunity to delve further into life in the kingdom of Lucis, something that's glossed over in favor of giving us a reason to watchtheKingsglaive movie., While it's easy to forgive some of the omissions as the story is easy enough to piece together, this would have been the perfect opportunity to push the lore a little more -- as it stands, the free anime episode is more enlightening than this paid DLC., , In fact, clocking in at roughly an hour or two (if you do everything), there isn't much room for anything outside of a slight twist on the already fun combat system. Gladiolus is a little slower than what you're used to, but he does have the gamey rage meter that lets him charge up and unleash new abilities after getting hit or dealing damage. You're basically going to be blocking more than dodging and counter-attacking, which to its credit, does differentiate DLC Gladiolus from playing as Noctis. Pulling giant columns out of the ground and using them to bludgeon enemies to death is also a hilarious touch that meshes with the strongman theme., That cool nuanced combat alteration (which will no doubt spread over into the other characters' DLCs) stops there. Episode Gladiolus is basically a dungeon you'd wander into on the open map, and almost feels like a loose collection of challenge rooms. A comparison Square Enix saw fit to address itself, as it even has a score attack mode that skips cutscenes and turns the whole affair into a speedrun-like deal. Bang bang, slash slash, fight [a more serious rendition of] Gilgamesh, and you're done.As previously mentioned, you doget a shirtless Gladiolus outfit that carries over into the main game, which is a cool little bonus., As someone who absolutely loved every member of the bro-trip party, I was hoping for a little bit more from the first major round of Final Fantasy XVDLC. The game has already received a ton of fantastic free updates, but so far the "Episode" format seems to be something all of us should enjoy in the Game of the Year edition, and not piecemeal., [This review is based on a retail build of the game provided by the publisher. You can access the DLC from the main menu as a separate episode.], Final Fantasy XV: Episode Gladiolus reviewed by Chris Carter, Slightly above average or simply inoffensive. Fans of the genre should enjoy this game, but a fair few will be left unfulfilled.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Hollow from the other side, I must have died a thousand times, I got my Nintendo Switch day one and I've put around 10 hours into The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, the latest game from my favorite series. Not because I don't love it, but because I've been obsessed with Hollow Knight. It is that damned good., In a year that has been absolutely filled to the brim with great games, I can say Hollow Knightis hands down without a doubt in my mind my favorite and surely an early contender for game of the year., , 
Hollow Knight(Nintendo Switch, PC [reviewed])Developer: Team CherryPublisher: Team CherryReleased: February 24, 2017 (PC), TBA (Nintendo Switch)MSRP: $14.99, Hollow Knightis a beautifully hand-drawn metroidvaniathat is equal parts fun, difficult, cute, and horrifying. All of the 100-plus characters are animated to be adorable and/or hideous, and the different areas of the humongous map each have their own art styles with some of the best use of parallaxI've ever seen. One area has ghosts floating in the foreground, while others have sprawling jungles or caves with layers that move independently of each other to create much livelier levels than most 2D games can offer. After only seeing videos and screenshots of the game's first area, a dreary cave where everything is a shade of blue, I had my breath taken away the moment I got to the second area, a jungle. It was so colorful and alive., On top of that, the soundtrack is one of the most memorable and whimsical scores I've heard in a long time. There are tracks here that I'd rank beside the music of Zeldaand Star Wars. It is that damned good. Even the general sound design is great, as every enemy has different realistic scuttling sounds, and many characters speak in seemingly made-up languages I found myself quoting by the end of the game. One character you'll constantly run into is a cartographer, who can always be located by following pieces of paper found on the ground and the song he hums. In most games buying maps is possibly one of the most boring experiences, but in Hollow Knight, I got excited every time I heard the faint hum of the cartographer from afar, growing louder as I got closer to his often hidden locations., , The game takes place in an underground kingdom of bugs where many heroes have ventured for various reasons, yet never returned. Players assume the role of an adorable little insect (a beetle?) armed with nothing but a nail, which just happens to be the size of a sword for a bug. Why is this cutie venturing into the forgotten kingdom? It isn't clear at the beginning but the truth soon reveals itself in a lore that leaves a lot up to interpretation, in my opinion, but that is not a bad thing at all. Being spoon fed is not always the best way to take in a story., Speaking of not being spoon fed, Hollow Knightencourages you to go explore as you wish. Most areas of the map are accessible early on, with certain areas in them only being accessible after acquiring items and abilities elsewhere. This meant that by the time I'd reached the credits for the first time, which took me 27 well-spent hours, I was pretty comfortable navigating most of the kingdom without looking at my map. Backtracking to areas I'd been never felt tedious. Along the way I'd be killing enemies to collect Geo, the in-game currency, as well as discovering previously unreachable areas and secrets, including a slew of challenging bosses., Bosses aren't pushovers, even with grinding to get some of the better equipment to help out. Reflexes are definitelyput to the test, especially considering most bosses are unique in their move sets, meaning each of the 30 bossbattles provide a whole new challenge to overcome. Players that get frustrated easily might be turned off by some of the difficulty, but I never found any of the bosses to be unfair in their tactics. I can safely say this is one of the only games where I felt a sense of accomplishment after every single boss was slain, because there were no cheap tactics to speak of, be it on the player's part or the bosses'., , Thankfully the controls here are tight, responsive, and on point. By the end of the game you'll be dodging, double jumping, slicing, dicing, shooting projectiles, and charging up attacks with ease and finesse. Mechanically you'll find most of the things you'd expect in the genre, but the one big difference here is the Dark Souls-like ghost you leave behind when dying. This ghost of your former self must be slain to regain the money you were carrying when you died, as well as make your 'bug juice holder' complete again. 'Bug juice,' as I've taken to calling it, is used to heal at any time by holding a button. This process takes a few seconds to start up and complete, meaning you'll be hard-pressed to do it during most battles, but boy did I find ways to do it during boss fights since it is almost necessary unless you're a golden god of gaming., I love both of those mechanics. They circumvent a couple of issues games have always had, namely appropriate punishment for failing, and a risk-reward system. In most games when you die, you're forced to redo a portion of a level, or even to start from the very beginning, but here you're simply spawned back at the most recent save point -- in this case benches that are all begging to be screenshotted -- and tasked with making it back to where you died and slaying your ghost. Dying before you get there means losing all of your money, which sucks, but I'd argue is a good punishment. It drives players to try their best at all times. The same could be said about healing, especially during boss fights, as you've got to find the perfect moment to heal., Another thing to love about Hollow Knightis the wealth of content. At 28 hours, I finished the game with around 85% completion rating, getting the bad ending. Judging by how much I still have left to discover, plus the two other endings I know exist, I could easily see myself ending up taking somewhere around 35 hours to 100% the game. This includes finding equitable charms that act as abilities, upgrades, and buffs, rescuing cute caterpillar babies, taking out optional bosses, and talking to a mysterious mushroom person among other things. I can't stress just how much there is to do and find here, with all of it feeling worthwhile and exciting. I guess you could say the game is anything but hollow -- on the contrary, it is cram-packed., , If it isn't clear, Hollow Knightis not only what I'd say is the best game so far this year, it also very well may be the best metroidvania title out there right now, and it is easily one of my favorite games of all-time. Truly a masterpiece of gaming if there ever was one, and certainly art worthy of being in a museum. This fact is even more impressive when you consider the game only pulled in around $43,000 USD on Kickstarter and was made by a very small team of indie developers. Having played it on PC, I'll probably revisit it once it eventually comes to the Nintendo Switch at a yet-to-be-determined date, hopefully with an amiibo to boot (make it happen, Team Cherry!)., For a moment there I thought I was growing out of video games, but damn has this past six months restored my faith thanks to Hollow Knight, Owlboy, and Breath of the Wild. We are truly living in a new golden age of gaming., [This review is based on a retail build of the game purchased by the reviewer.], Hollow Knight reviewed by Jed Whitaker, No game is perfect, but comes as close as it could get within its genre. The new game to beat in its sector; we're talking pure video game ecstasy.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Get one with the universe, At first glance, a game with a title like "Everything" seems like it might be difficult to describe. Like trying to pitch a show about nothing., Fortunately, things get quite a bit easier if you break it down a bit. Everything is a game about Every Thing. Simple, right?

I'd end the review there, but being a professional Games Journalizer, it is only prudent to continue. Every Thing in Everything's little universe is playable, from the smallest rock to the largest galaxy. If it's rendered in the game as a distinct object, you can control it., Exactly how to control it is a fairly simple process. Hold a shoulder button, and highlight that thing and voila, you are an ant. Or a juniper tree. Or a helium molecule. Or a continental landmass., This, of course, raises the question of what exactly can be done in the game, once possessing an appropriately silly object. Well, you can move. Everything you "possess" is capable of movement, even rocks, trees, and other typically inanimate items. Singing and dancing are also options, allowing like objects to group together in swarms, rolling about the procedurally generated landscape like plastic toys falling out of a toy basket., , About the only thing you can't be in Everythingis a person. There just don't seem to be any around, despite the presence of cities, buildings, cars, forklifts, and all manner of other artificial items., That's not to say that there's no human touch to the game, though. The other thing to do in game involves hunting down little thought bubbles randomly dispersed across the universe, emitted by various objects. Most thoughts read like deep-thought tweets, but others unlock clips from the lectures of Alan Watts, the late British-American pop philosopher. These bits are what separate Everythingfrom any number of vaguely profound art-games, as the lectures are, for now, exclusive, added to the game through a deal with the Watts estate., The talks themselves promote a sort of universalist outlook, encouraging listeners to think of themselves as part of a larger existence, where distinctions between "self" and "other" are nothing more than mental barriers to a wider perspective. We are all star children, and so on. Dating back to the '70s and '80s, the "oneness of the universe" standpoint even seems a little quaint, but at the same time, it might actually be valuable to emphasize how interconnected everything is in a time when people are more divided than ever before., , I'm not equipped to tell you if that all seems very deep or not. I don't know what kind of philosophy or theology courses you took in school, so the impactfulness of the Watts talks will very from person to person. All the same, they were never boring to listen to, at least, and fit in with the game itself.Everything does its part to try to reinforce Watts' vision of a grander, more comprehensive perspective., Despite the game's somewhat primitive graphics, there is something genuinely cool about being able to zoom out from the atomic scale all the way up to going outside the universe itself, into a meta-space inhabited by abstract shapes and planes. It's capable of inspiring a measure of awe, under the right circumstances (perhaps late-night circumstances, after a couple of drinks or a joint)., Beyond all that...there isn't much to Everything. If the sense of scale and openness don't grab you, it's unlikely the philosophizing will. Though there is something a bit "game-like" about trying to possess absolutely all the possible objects in the game's universe, it's unlikely anyone will ever bother to try., , And yet in its way, Everything feels to me like a mellow, less aggressive take on Katamari Damacy or Noby Noby Boy, a curious, reflective novelty that, for players in the right kind of mindset, can spark something profound., [This review is based on a retail build of the game purchased by the reviewer.], Everything reviewed by Josh Tolentino, A solid game that definitely has an audience. Might lack replay value, could be too short or there are some hard-to-ignore faults, but the experience is fun.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Swan Symphony, Games dont tend to age as well as entertainment from other media. A movie made 60 years ago, even if its not a particularly well-made movie, can be just as enjoyable today as it was when it first hit theaters. There are many video games from my childhood in the '80s and early '90s that I absolutely loved, but cant push myself to play today because issues I could ignore or missed as an adolescent today stand out like a sore thumb. , The Legend of Zelda is not one of those games. When it was released it changed gaming, and when I finally got to play it at five years old, it changed me and started a lifelong love affair with interactive entertainment. So well crafted, so forward thinking, the NES masterpiece is just as playable today, 30 years later, as it was when it was first released. Something tells me 30 years from now, when Im 61, Ill be saying the same thing about The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild.

The Legend of Zelda: The Breath of the Wild solely against previous entries would be a disservice to the entire series. The classic Zelda formula still works when it isnt bogged down by inane tasks. Breath of the Wilds go where you want to go, do what you want to do conceit isnt any better or worse, its just different. If A Link Between Worlds was a chance to eliminate the staler elements that permeated Skyward Sword, this game is a palate cleanser for the whole franchise. , The story here is the same as its ever been: a boy with his sword challenges a demon that just wont die with the help of a princess imbued with the blood of a goddess. In Breath, Zelda and the Calamity Ganon have been trapped in a 100-year battle at Hyrule Castle. The surrounding towns and villages were destroyed, their charred remnants scattered across the land as reminders of what has been lost. Link, gravely wounded in the fight, was taken to a restoration chamber, waking 100 years later with no memory of what transpired. Your overall goal is obviously to beat Ganon and save Zelda, but the road to the final confrontation will be paved by your actions and your decisions. , Its quite well known at this point that Breath of the Wild features an open-world design. Spending 54 hours in it, its one of the most open worlds Ive ever experienced, reminding me very much of an MMO with all the level restrictions removed. Once you finish with The Old Man at The Great Plateau, youre free to go in any direction you want, conquering the game as you please. For me, that meant running around discovering all of the Shiekah Shrines I could. These puzzle and combat trials, built centuries ago, offered many wonderful opportunities to use the Shiekah Slate., , Obviously inspired by the Wii U GamePad in the same way the Tingle Tuner was obviously a Game Boy Advance, the Shiekah Slate is as close to a classic Zelda item youll find here. Using it, you can take pictures, create bombs, whip up blocks of ice, manipulate metallic pieces, and freeze time on an object, allowing you to strike it repeatedly with your weapon to send it flying. While early Shrines point to just a few options for the device in puzzle solving, the real-world applications of it proved to be quite versatile. Beyond uncovering secrets, I found many different ways to use the slate to my advantage. Ice blocks could serve as a quick bridge or shield, stopping time on a massive slab of rock let me jettison it right into an enemy encampment, and I was able to use the magnetic feature to steal weapons before the enemies could grab them. Plus bombs, which are perfect for making things go boom. , The depth at which I used the Shiekah Slate is great, but I feel an even more important change in design direction is how this game isnt setting you up to succeed. Past Zelda games, with their linear progression, have always prepared you for the fight you have ahead. You were given the right tools at the right times and the land was littered with bombs, arrows, and enough rupees to fill any size wallet. In Breath of the Wild, youre destined to fail unless you go out of your way to find the supplies you need. Foraging for food because there are no heart pieces, stealing weapons off of enemies because yours are close to breaking, cooking up dishes because theres no easy-access potion shop  success isnt handed to Link, he and you have to earn it., , That was a fact that took me many, many hours to figure out for myself. I spent too much playing this game as if it were every other Zelda game, even though all the signs were telling me to do otherwise. It wasnt until I died for what felt like the 50th time fighting my second dungeon boss that I realized I had to change how I played. Like John Rambo in First Blood, I had to actively prepare for the fight to come and while a montage of me gathering fruit and cooking bugs wouldnt pack the same punch as watching Sylvester Stallone assemble spear traps that make you wince in pain at the thought of them, that careful and time-consuming effort paid off just the same. , With all that planning, I was finally able to challenge the dungeon bosses with confidence. Unless there are some hidden in a remote part of Hyrule, Breath of the Wild has only a handful of dungeons. Theyre almost purely puzzle-based, meaning you can conquer them in any order you like. Activating every switch in the dungeons required me to put my thinking cap on, and with a healthy amount of experimenting, I was able to unlock the keys to each one and make my way to the boss battle. With no dungeon-specific items to collect, these boss battles, one of which was aggravatingly difficult, tried my combat skills like no other. There were patterns I could follow, yes, but actually defeating them required lighting-quick reflexes, thorough competency in the controls, and extensive planning, including making sure I had enough weapons to defeat them., , Weapons break and they break often. Some didnt last a single encounter and there have been times I had to cycle through three different melee tools to defeat one enemy. Ive been annoyed by breakable weapons in the past, but here I never reached a point where I became disgusted by the concept. Replacement weapons are easily available and, with the Shiekah Slate and stealth skills, I could easily steal swords and clubs before Bokoblins had a chance to use them on me. , Theres a nice variety in the weapons too. Sword and shield combos, two-handed spears that are ideal for mounted combat, clubs of all sizes, and boomerangs that could be used as a short sword and a projectile that returns to you. The further I went in the game, the more durable weapons I came across, eventually ending up with the Master Sword. If the game were less generous with new weapons, the fragility of my armaments would have been an issue. , Now, this review may sound like Im just full of endless admiration for the game, oblivious to the issues found within, but its easy for me to admit its not without its flaws. The framerate can actually stutter to a stop, inventory management could be less cumbersome, I encountered a few instances of overlapping dialog in the cutscenes, it takes an unusually long time to come out of the home menu  which might be a feature and not a bug  and it quickly became annoying to stop the action every time the Blood Moon returned my fallen foes to the world of the living. Theres also the fact that outside of off-TV play, there are no GamePad-exclusive features., , I get those concerns exist, I just dont really care. Not one of them dampened my enjoyment of this title in any way or took away from the pure joy of picking a direction and just going. The topography of Hyrule is so thoughtfully littered with points of interest, its siren song seducing me to each tower, to each shrine, to each interesting rock formation that actually turned out to be a puzzle. The sense of discovery here is like nothing Ive felt in a long, long time. , There is no other way to put this: The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is brilliant. It is magnificent. It is marvelous, amazing, fantastic, and every other synonym for the word wonderful that can be found in the thesaurus. If The Legend of Zelda was the flint that ignited the passion I have for video gaming, Breath of the Wild is the 500lb bag of charcoal that will keep that fire burning for decades to come., [This review is based on a retail build of the game purchased by the reviewer.], The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild (Wii U) reviewed by CJ Andriessen, No game is perfect, but comes as close as it could get within its genre. The new game to beat in its sector; we're talking pure video game ecstasy.How we score:The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , The joy of snipping, The game selection on Nintendo Switch right now is decidedly sparse, but I don't mind. Two titles are keeping me plenty busy, and if you've glanced at the eShop yet, I bet you know 'em., The first, of course, is The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. That game card isn't leaving my system anytime soon. But the other? It's a last-minute addition to the launch lineup called Snipperclips.
