Standard enemies in many areas can be trivialized with upgraded weapons and armor, but the tension never goes away. You must always contend with other players that have died in the area, creating “haters” – ghosts that patrol the area looking to kill you. Players can also hunt you directly with characters from their storage, tasking them to find and kill you. Assembling and outfitting your roster of slayers, explorers, and dungeon-climbers is fun.
The mechanics of the story translate over to the game's Breach mode, which is a single-player mode set inside a VR-style world. It has its own skill tree and focuses on individual levels, times, and scores. Here, you typically have to run through an environment, collecting data from nodes as you progress. Once you've collected enough data, you escape to win. I got a little bogged down in the in-universe explanations for all this. Like... why would a VR representation of a security system's firewall have VR ventilation ducts for you to escape through?
This marks the last full episode of the King’s Quest season, and I’m relieved that it ends on what actually feels like an ending. There have been some great treats for longtime fans throughout the previous chapters, but The Odd Gentlemen rewards that loyalty. Some players might find a couple of moments on the corny side, but without spoiling anything, I was absolutely delighted by it all. 
Sony also included a novelty Retro mode that turns back the clock to the 1980s. Designed like a game you would find on NES, the batter can freely move in the box, and the pitcher can change the trajectory of a pitch mid-flight. Balls jump off of the bat to the sound of a slide whistle, yet the visuals hold the same high level of realism as in the core game, painting a strange mishmash of today and yesteryear. Retro mode is enjoyable, but is designed mostly for head-to-head matchups against friends – offering no form of stat-tracking or season play.
This edition includes the After Dark expansion, which adds new specializations, transportation options, a day/night cycle, and more to the base game. Unfortunately, this package does not include the other expansions that have come to PC, like Snowfall and Natural Disasters, which is a major missed opportunity for this to be considered the definitive version.
By putting players in control of city-planning without annoying barriers or online connectivity requirements, Cities: Skylines has established a reputation for being the best modern city-builder when it originally released two years ago. Though the PC release relies on mouse and keyboard controls, the game has leapt to Xbox One with full gamepad support and a new streamlined menu system. The result is the premier city simulation game on consoles.
The campaign, while relatively slight by comparison, is surprisingly engaging and helpful. It changes things up from level to level, working in the satisfying wall runs and platforming where appropriate to create sections that play more like little jumping challenges than your standard first-person shooter maps. The story is simple and, overall, parts of the game are a little disjointed, but it manages to pull together some decent characters, good voiceover performances, and fun little boss fights that actually help you get more comfortable with piloting a titan. The campaign also goes places, packing in some moments that manage to seem ridiculous as a part of this larger story while also feeling really great from a gameplay perspective. When the game does finally drop you into a large scenario full of titans on both sides of the conflict, it takes on the vibe of a pretty good action movie. It does a good job of making you seem smart when you're finding collectibles and tough when you're crushing your opposition. It's not super long, but it also doesn't dwell on any one type of gameplay for too long, either. It strikes a better balance than you might expect from a first-person shooter campaign, even if it sometimes comes across more like a bunch of disparate parts that were strung together with a story about a man and his giant robot suit hung around the edges.
Even with these issues, Super Bomberman R's most egregious offense comes with how it handles a game over in story mode. The gems you use to purchase characters, customizations, and multiplayer maps are also tied to story mode continues. If you run out of lives and don't have enough gems to continue, you lose all your progress on that world - a hefty penalty, especially if you reach the boss fight. With no way to go back and replay earlier missions prior to finishing the whole campaign, this can leave you stuck, making multiplayer your only way to earn gems. Lowering the difficulty reduces the number of gems required to purchase a continue, but you shouldn't have to cheat the system to avoid losing progress.
Every week we send Brendan onto the high seas of early access to see what booty he can plunder. This time, the maritime multiplayer mayhem of Blackwake [official site]., Harrrr. Shiver my own timbers. [Aside: What else do pirates say?] Ahoy friendy! If you want to be a true-to-life sea dog just like me, the firey bosom of Blackwake awaits. It’s large-scale naval warfare with crews of up to 16 people. It’s what I’d call a ‘Hall-of-the-Mountain-King-like’, because that’s the royalty-free music that early access games often use in their trailer to invoke a sense of chaos and silliness, a musical composition that has, as a result, become a coded signal for games which are roughewn and therefore “funny”., And Blackwake can be funny. When you’re walking along deck and you see your fellow sailor blown away in ragdoll glory by a distant and well-aimed cannon shot, it’s hard not to smile at their misfortune, even as you patch up the hole in the deck with your hammer. Even as you too are blasted away into the sea., , As a crewman, it’s your job to do something useful and follow your captain’s orders. They steer the ship, and you’re on red alert. Tasks range from loading and firing cannons, repairing hull damage or sail damage, pumping out water, restocking the cannon supplies, or taking potshots with your musket at enemy crewmen if they are close enough. Should the opportunity arise, you might try to board the enemy. In which case, it’s cutlasses and broken bottles at the ready, because the guns reload at the comically true-to-life pace of a 17th century weapon., , There are a few ship sizes, with the largest being a monstrous galleon packed with cannons below deck. There’s something impressive about looking down this line of guns and seeing a man stationed at each one, ready to fire on the captain’s orders. And there’s something claustrophobic about seeing the same place five minutes later through the blue blur of water as you all swim around trying to patch up the holes that are causing the massive hulk to sink. The battles normally feature three pirate ships versus three navy ships (although there is a 1v1 mode) with the winner being the first to diminish the enemy’s “tickets” in the style of ye olde Battlefield., At it’s core, it’s a game of teamwork. Of following orders and making sure your manpower does not go to waste. Or, if you’ve successfully nominated yourself as the captain on arrival, a game of giving good orders and not suffering a mutiny (this is just a player-run vote that can happen at any time). It’s also wildly popular. There’s no trouble in finding a game. But there is trouble, for me, in finding a reason to stay once you’ve got the hang of it., , It’s about repetition. I can see the appeal in having one job and doing it well. When you work side-by-side with everyone, sponger I and loader you, you become a small component in a larger machine, ready to fulfill your duty come hell or high water (and the latter is a constant worry). It’s a part of what makes teamwork-based games good, what someone once described as the joy of videogames in it’s purest form – “being assigned a task and then completing that task”. But it’s also what keeps me from enjoying Blackwake as much as my crewmates. I can grab the powder and load the shot with the best of them. But after repeating the same tasks over and over, the fun is destined to dry up like a bone bleaching in the sun., , It feels like there is something missing from these naval skirmishes. Some essence or feature that can throw good teamwork or good captaincy into disarray. Efficiency is how you win the game, it’s what every captain is aiming for, but it’s also what makes the experience of being a sailor less interesting. There’s definitely a strategy to the battles, especially at the level of the cap’n. There are swivel guns that damage sails and slow your targets. There’s different types of shot to load into the cannons, some damaging hull and some damaging crew. There’s a grappling hook that can only be used if the captain gives a direct command to do so via the in-game orders. There’s a method to wearing down the enemy vessel and a method to breaking away from a dangerous chase. There’s good and bad weather that has a real impact on the fighting. When your ship gets rammed, the resulting bedlam is invariably hilarious., , But for all of this, it feels like there’s still a hole in the deck. Maybe some social element beyond a player-run vote, or some motive beyond running down the enemy’s tickets – possibly the least interesting competitive multiplayer design since the vanilla deathmatch. Whatever it is, right now I feel like being part of a well-lubed crew is less interesting than being part of a rowdy crowd of new players. Having a terrible captain who can’t cast off or doesn’t know port from starboard (it me) is funnier than having one who’ll give direct and perfect orders. It makes me vaguely sad that this incomplete leviathan has snuck out of the brine before the happier-looking Sea of Thieves, a game which puts booty, not kills, at the centre of crew-on-crew competition., , It’s also a game of two sides – the captain’s game is about being a good communicator and steering in a clever or lucky enough fashion to land a good broadside while taking little damage to their own vessel. The crew’s game is, well, just to do the same few tasks over and over while trying not to die. The endgame, if there is one, is to become a good captain. But if you don’t like barking orders and bossing people around, it’s not a position you can undertake with any usefulness, and you’ll – understandably – be booted right off the steering wheel., , There’s also a catch in terms of its design. Outside the captaincy, it has been built without any concrete roles. Every crewman can do every job. On paper that means that you can take a role and run with it all match. Become the ammo guy, delivering things to deck. Load all the cannons for everyone else, or man the sails and repair them if they become shot and ragged (a dangerous state to be in, since it slows your ship to a crawl). But in reality, every man really does every job. The captain shouts: “Right side, fire!” and everyone fires the… [checks notes] starboard guns. The captain shouts: “Repair the hull!” and everyone rushes to repair the hull. On a “good” ship there is no specialising or role-playing. In fairness, this fluidity often leads to a more able and efficient crew. But, like I say, that also means that well-fought battles turn out to be the most dull. The weight and clunkiness of your character, always getting caught on objects, and the lack of good “object signalling” and UI, are the types of early access rough edges that don’t help., , There’s teamwork and there’s strategy and there’s silliness here, for sure. But for a game about blowing your enemies away in a cloud of woody splinters, there’s an odd lack of excitement in it for me. This is where people normally yell “you need to play with friends!” but that’s the kind of industry fallacy I’ve always held in high suspicion. Playing with friends improves every videogame. I still suspect plenty of people will happily load cannons and fetch supplies even without crewmates of prior acquaintance. But for my doubloons, it currently feels like a throwaway distraction. An empty hulk, not a soul below.
You can fast forward to certain points in the day, but it isn’t precise enough to alleviate the problem. You often must fetch an object in the house early in the day and then deliver it to a certain room later, and then you have to wait for a character to enter that room or interact with that object before progressing. Most of the solutions require you to spend a lot of time hiding in wardrobes watching the seconds tick by while you wait for characters to go about their business.
Shantae also earns an assortment of transformations allowing her to turn into animals like an elephant to break through walls or a spider to climb on ceilings. Tracking down new transformations is what allows you to explore new areas of levels, so finding them is rewarding, and most are as fun to control as Shantae. The act of transforming is strange, however, requiring you to open up a menu and time your selection for when it appears on-screen. I often selected the wrong transformation as a result, which is annoying, but does little to impede your forward progress in the level, or plot.
This is all the more maddening when you realize how fruitless combat is to begin with. Sticker Star’s dumbed-down progression system is even more severely neutered in Color Splash. Mario can expand his paint reserves by collecting hammers after fights, and his HP goes up by 25 at six predetermined points in the story. Outside of a few upgrades that increase the number of cards that Mario can play in one turn, there is nothing else that you can do to feel more powerful.
In trying to make The Devil’s Daughter a bigger game, Frogwares upped the amount of action, a costly move that, while making for more dynamic story moments, forces the player to endure half-baked minigames and overly long action sequences. In one moment, Holmes must outrun a hunter for what seems like an eternity, ducking behind boulders, trees, and even using his detective vision to uncover a safe rock path through a swamp. This sequence is silly, void of fun, and derails an otherwise awesome case. The same frustrations rise in a stealth sequence that is cool in concept, but couldn’t be much more frustrating in execution. Frogwares tries to add action wherever it could, and it just doesn’t pay off. The worst example is an intense moment where Watson is trying to revive a man through CPR that doubles as a rhythm minigame similar to Dance Dance Revolution. My connection to the world was lost in that instant, and I just sat back and laughed until the goofy sequence concluded.
Let’s break this down. You fight by playing single-use cards. If you win, you’re rewarded with coins. You use coins to...buy more cards. With that system in place, why would anyone ever want to encounter an enemy in the field? I never once felt like any of the standard fights were doing anything to progress the story or my character’s abilities. It’s maddening. I got to a point in which I started trying to flee from every fight. This works on occasion, but it’s terrible when Mario falls flat on his face while attempting to flee and you’re forced to go through another awful round of card-based combat.
Telltale’s Batman initially did a poor job establishing how the developer’s take on Batman would be different than what fans of the Bat were already used to. Now, four episodes in, Batman: The Telltale Series has set itself apart from the rest of the Batman mythos by explicitly focusing on Bruce Wayne’s inner torment in wake of a crushing familial betrayal and his crumbling relationships with close friends who eventually become enemies. Guardian of Gotham is one of the more enjoyable and intriguing episodes, introducing twists on established characters and finally shining a much-needed ray of hope into a grisly story, though it doesn’t quite reach the heights of episode 2.
When combat encounters do erupt, Homefront has a few things going for it. First, the sound design is good and weighty, with hefty rifle reports cutting through increasingly tense ambient drone soundtrack. Second, when the game is running smoothly, combat can look fantastic--especially when the day-night cycle offers particularly cinematic lighting. Third, Homefront does a good job of illustrating the need for the Resistance to be flexible by offering weapons that can be modified (on the fly) in ways that go beyond attaching a scope or a silencer. Each gun is based around a core receiver which can have different fittings attached to transform the weapon in major ways. So what is first a silenced pistol can be transformed into an submachine gun, in the case that things get hairy. Or maybe you transform your mid-range battle rifle into a “Freedom Launcher” that launches explosive red, white, and blue fireworks (perhaps the only example of “so-goofy-it’s-good” design in the game). I eventually settled into a favored set of guns, but I still appreciated the novelty and quality of the game’s armory.
Technical problems aside, the latter half is disappointing in other ways. Except for some lightly sprinkled puzzles, Mr. Shifty is content just to throw more and more enemies at you for the last few hours, trading the creativity in the first half for a dull endurance test that lasts far too long and ends with a whimper.
Watch Dogs 2 gives you plenty of ways to cause compelling havoc. You can control something as large as a crane, or cause an enemy’s phone to buzz to create a small disruption. Performing quick hacks with the touch of a button makes hacking easily accessible. You can also be precise, with deeper options including proximity traps and luring enemies towards imploding electrical fuses. Remotely controlling vehicles to spin them out of control is an immensely amusing way to lose pursuers during a car chase. I enjoy how Watch Dogs 2 gives you enough creative fuel to achieve the wackiest hacks, from blocking off entryways with forklifts or altering a foe’s data to become the target of a gang. This sense of variety and seeing the immediate repercussions of your hacks makes you feel powerful, giving you the illusion that almost anything is possible.
Multiplayer offers massive customization. You can create some fairly standard kits right off the bat, including stuff built for newer players that have trouble keeping a scorestreak going. I was fairly pleased that there are lots of weapon and class options for new or lapsed players to get in the mix and not feel like they’re dragging their team down, while still letting more experienced players shine without devolving just a chaotic shootfest.
After the plane crashes into the mysterious Rhombus of Ruin – a slightly different take on the Bermuda Triangle – the team is separated and Raz uses his powers to reunite them. Thanks to an ability-dampening substance near the ocean floor, his powers are limited and his friends are stuck in bizarre delusions. Raz is still deathly afraid of water, but he overcomes it and shifts his consciousness between various fish and aquatic creatures to track down and rescue his scattered friends.
Tales of Berseria is the darkest Tales game, but it's also the most human. It tackles complex themes in relatable ways, like betrayal, revenge, and how pain brings out the worst in us. This makes it shine, and is a step in a right direction after coming off the disappointing Zestiria. However, Berseria still has its missteps when it comes to pacing and dungeon design. Even so, I liked the shift to a more somber tale that gave me plenty to think about during - and even after - the journey.
While the characters and world of Owlboy made me want to keep going, the plot falls a bit short. Early on, the game sets up an interesting dynamic between Otus and his stern mentor, Asio, who scolds Otus frequently. The plot hints at why he’s so harsh with you, but the full reveal never comes. The relationship is thrown by the wayside for most of the game, and the unsatisfying ending doesn’t tie up the loose thread. Instead, it introduces a convoluted plot point in the last hour, then never fully explains that, either.
The best way to think about Everything is as a giant toybox. After the tutorial, you have no real direction or objective. You’re set free in this giant universe, with the closest thing to a goal being to control as many things as possible and check them off your list one by one. This might sound dull on paper, but I spent hours jumping from body to body to see all of what Everything has to offer. You can control pretty much any object or animal you can imagine, including cells, zebras, ants, trains, UFOs, radio towers, entire continents, garbage dumps, weeds, and even the sun. Your control over these things is limited, but still entertaining. You can gather them in a herd, surge across a landscape at high speeds, or even reproduce by making two similar objects dance. One of my favorite experiences in Everything was coming across a planet inhabited by giant pizza slices that herded beneath radio towers and taking control of some nearby arcade cabinets to make them dance for several minutes to reproduce an entire army of smaller arcade cabinets.
Every week we pit Brendan against the thousands of half-formed games of early access in a doomed battle for supremacy. This time, the huge and ridiculous fights of Ultimate Epic Battle Simulator., There’s not much in UEBS that isn’t possible in any of the Total War series. I mean, if you discount the ability to pit masterly Chickens against a force of Orcs. Apart from that, it’s still about arranging vast (or small) armies on large maps and having them go at each other until one force comes out of the meat grinder without losing all their wee men. In fact, it’s hundreds of times more limited than a real strategy game. But many would say that’s not the point. What you have here is a toy, something that aims for the simplicity of its Deadliest Warrior conceit and – just barely – hits the mark. But what kind of brawls can you create? Well, here’s four epic battles we threw together to find out.Originally it was 60,000 Persians, in an attempt to model the infamous battle of Thermopopomopolae. I would have conscripted more men to help fit the legendary version of events, but the game groaned under the weight, the frame rate stuttered, and then my monitor exploded and sent splinters of pixels into my eyes. So I bumped down the Persian soldier count to 45,000 and kicked the graphics quality settings down the stairs. It looks a lot less pretty now, but it works., , As soon as the battle began, I realised something was wrong. In the set-up menu you can give the units basic orders – hold position or attack. I thought I had ordered the ogres to stand their ground in a canyon, to better recreate the Hawt Gates of the famous Greek battle. But I quickly discovered that there had been a terrible mix-up. The ogres were now flooding out of the canyon and advancing on the Persian mega-army. The Persians, meanwhile, were standing in the open, waiting patiently for the ogres to arrive, looking with bored, expressionless faces at the oncoming horrors., , But there was another problem. I had chosen this map because it was the only one with a narrow canyon (I know there wasn’t really snow at the battle of Thereminorolypoly, come on). But I had neglected to take note of the map’s name – “Avalanche Canyon”. Before the ogres even entered the clearing, they had already lost almost 100 of their number to huge boulders collapsing down on them. A third of their forces had been destroyed before a single Persian sword was swung., , When they finally reached the field, the ogres cut into the square of humans like it was a block of soft cheese. They killed 6000 men before they finally succumbed to the blows of the Persian blades. When viewed from above, it looked like someone had taken a bite out of a giant piece of toast., , So ended the battle of Thermopopoppadom., Winner: Patient Persians., , A zombie horde. A Mediterranean town. A fight with impossible odds. This summer, only six men stand between the undead and the end of the world. What men? It’s [movie title appears on screen] Six Better-Than-Average US Soldiers I Created From The Custom Unit Editor., , You can fiddle with the stats of any character model in UEBS, you see. As such, I wanted to see if the explosive heroism of your average blockbuster could play out here. I made the US soldiers from the WWII era much more powerful than usual, with a faster fire rate. Then I plopped six of them down on a roof in the middle of a dusty town, with only one set of stairs leading up, facing a huge force of zeds invading the outskirts of town. This time I got the ‘hold position’ orders correct., , But as the fight starts I find out that only three of the six soldiers have spawned. The other three must have fallen through the floor or something. I consider restarting but carry on with the blockbuster, deciding that half the men only makes it TWICE as heroic. Unfortunately, the soldiers take their orders very seriously and will not move or relocate even when the horde is on the street below, even when the rotting corpses are climbing the stairs, even when they stand right next to the soldiers, slashing at them with their bony man-talons. There is no “skirmish” tactic that lets them retreat when a foe is near., , What’s worse, the elite soldiers don’t understand to pick the most pressing targets, instead choosing to fire down into the endless crowd rather than the zombie two feet to their left. Two of the soldiers die and I take control of the last survivor using a “possession” mechanic (you simply right-click on any troop and you’re in control of them). I leap off the corner of the building in an effort to escape. I break all the bones in my body and die., , Winner: Zombie horde., , Having enjoyed the dumb brawling of For Honor (despite all its problems) I decided to make my own tiny match of it with the toys on offer here. I put the Vikings (here called ‘Wild Men’) aside and ignored the fact there are no Samurai yet included in the battle editor. Instead I pitted these three ahistorical mates against each other in the tight courtyard of a European fortress. Knights, Romans, Spartanmen., , This was, unsurprisingly, the quickest battle of the lot. The Knights, sandwiched between the others, were at a disadvantage and died quickly. But not as quickly as the Romans, who wilted like unwatered lillies at the briefest touch of a Spartan spear. At the end of the fight all six Spartans remained, surrounded by foolish corpses., Winner: Spartmans. , , The battle began as the sun rose. The penguin stared out at his frosty domain. The sky was clear, the air was fresh. All was good in the world. But through the woods a sound came, the sound of a thousand vicious Northmen. They charged out of the treeline, racing toward the Penguin Lord. The Penguin stood and watched them come, his stoic eyes considering each mortal man with sorrow and pity. He would have to fight them., , The Vikings reached their foe and took their first swings, to no avail. They surrounded the Penguin and hacked and slashed and kicked and roared. But the Penguin Lord did not falter, he did not blink. He took the blows as a sponge takes water, and then he began his slow process. He turned in a circle and picked out his first victim. A single thrust, too fast for human eyes, and the human warrior fell in a shower of blood and fear. The Penguin circled again and slowly chose his next target. Again, the fearsome deathblow came. Was it a beak to the heart? Or a razor-like flipper through the neck? Nobody can say, such are the mysteries of the Immortal Gods., , As night fell, so did men. But still the Vikings roared, still they fought bravely and without tiring. They fought long through the night, without rest and without remorse. The human spirit is indomitable, thought the Penguin sadly, as he plucked another warrior’s life away., , The sun rose on the next day, and the Penguin Lord stood over his domain once more. But the precious white of his snow kingdom was polluted now, amassed with blood and bone, the corpses of the valiant Northmen lying in heaps around his tiny penguin feet. No survivors. He looked sadly into the blue sky, searching for some sign of peace from the heavens. Once again he had killed a generation of men who had come to hunt him. Once again, the emptiness of a friendless life filled him with a deep remorse. So stood the Penguin Lord of Nothing, King of the Wastes.
With two difficulty settings, hard and casual, Thimbleweed Park mends the flaws of older adventure games without sacrificing the charm. Hard mode features clever, multi-step puzzles that can be difficult to solve but are rarely obtuse. Listening to dialogue cues, such as a reporter mentioning that she is waiting for a call, can nudge you in the right direction. In casual mode, puzzles have streamlined solutions, removing specific steps such as no longer requiring a combination to open a safe. This makes the game feel shorter, but makes puzzles easier and more approachable.
It's important to note up front that the tone and presentation of Inside are just like that of Limbo, which is to say it's preeminently focused on having you puzzle-platform your way through beautifully rendered, increasingly grim scenarios at the expense of everything else. You will pick your way through a wide array of different environments, stitched together seemingly at random and oozing with unsettling imagery. You will solve satisfying puzzles in macabre scenarios; you won't be told a coherent story. You may be scratching your head a little when it's all over. If you roll your eyes at games that can even be loosely described as artsy, you should at least know what you're getting into here. Inside takes itself seriously, but it's way too good at everything it does to ever become bogged down in pretension.
If not, Drawn To Death has some innovative new ways for punishing your decision to stick with it. Beyond the insult-slinging announcer and characters, players are plied with a wide variety of unlockable taunts to spam other players with. These animated images pop up on player avatars and kill screens, and emulate the dankest of internet memes. For example, I unlocked a tombstone with the witty slogan "R.I.P. Your Ass." To drive the joke home, the tombstone itself is also shaped like a butt. I can't think of a better metaphorical representation of what Drawn to Death is, or why you can skip it.
Preventing a character’s death usually involves a series of adventure-game antics, such as using a record player to lure a minion into a closet and then locking the door behind them. Thankfully, these puzzle solutions are rarely obtuse, and they often ask you to pull the strings from the shadows in some empowering ways. I prevented one murder by turning a rifle into a nonlethal weapon, while another puzzle had me reworking the power in the mansion in order to stop an escape artist’s stage show before it was his final curtain call.
Let's talk about that feel a bit more, because it's a big part of what separates Titanfall 2 from other games of its ilk. I'm talking about the sort of feel that makes every weapon in the game fun to handle. The aiming is really sharp (with a handful of analog stick options that can help you dial it in the way you like it). There's a satisfying, crunchy little noise that plays every time you hit your target. It provides a rewarding bit of feedback when you land shots. Those gunshots, even though you're dealing with futuristic weaponry, are still recognizable as the sound of damage being induced. The short burst of a shotgun blast thwips more than it booms, but the weapons still sound effective, rather than weak or quiet.
The act of clearing out a region is more or less the same from start to finish. You get to a region, get a quick video about what role that region plays in the cartel's operation, then your map gets a few "major intel" folders on it. Each folder unlocks one of the area's first few missions, though once you've completed a couple of those and start getting closer to drawing out the boss of an area, the missions start chaining together. You'll also find minor intel along the way, and this fills up the map with side activities. The catch is that each region has the same set of side activities, so you'll be offered way too many opportunities to defend a radio transmitter, hack a computer, tag supplies, and so on. By the second region, the game already feels overly repetitive. Again, this is something that the story could have helped with, since there's a colorful cast of characters hinted at along the way. But few of the region boss missions pay off.
The first few hours of Persona 5 feel like settling in with the opening chapters of a massive novel. Even though you don’t know the characters well or understand where the plot is going, you can feel the weight behind the narrative like hundreds of pages waiting to be read. As new threads and mechanics are introduced, that depth and sense of intent persist, and Persona 5 takes the requisite time to do its many ambitions justice. The result is an uncommonly complex and satisfying RPG in terms of both story and gameplay, and when you factor in its impeccable stylishness, Persona 5 is hard to put down.
One of Robo Recall’s biggest surprises is how well-written it is. The story is simplistic, which works well since it complements the carnage-focused gameplay. A strong humorous undercurrent runs also through the campaign, skewering both corporate culture and science-fiction. For example, your A.I. assistant tells you that your office is “up to minimum safety standards” the first time you step inside it, and robots often scream “Robot Heaven! I see it!” or sing the same song HAL sings in 2001: A Space Odyssey when he dies. I was chuckling just as often as I was wowed by the actions available to me during the gameplay.
The Gravity Rush series’ defining idea has a lot of potential. As Kat, a gravity shifter with a mysterious past, you can lift off the ground and fly (fall, technically) across massive floating cities. Though you take on several main and side missions (as in other open-world games), my favorite part of Gravity Rush 2 is falling around and collecting gems that let me upgrade my powers, since it lets me explore the lovingly detailed spaces at my leisure. It's a bittersweet joy, because while Gravity Rush 2 gives you lots of different ways to fall and fight your way through various activities, the mission design hinders the potential of its core concept as often as it embraces it.
Rescuing them isn’t as easy as grabbing their lapels and shaking some sense into them. Instead, you have to figure out how best to tap into your abilities in multi-stage puzzles. In one early section, Milla won’t leave a school bus that’s wrecked far beneath the waves. It’s filled with odd creatures, but when you jump into her head, you see that she’s convinced that they’re terrified children that she has to rescue. Raz has to bring her back to reality in part by charging up the battery, which he does in a silly puzzle that involves electric eels and the bus stop sign. The puzzle is cute and clever, but as with a lot of things in the game, it relies too much on repeating the same steps. You get the single “Aha!” moment, and then you have to go through the motions several more times. 
I keep coming back to that desperate phrase: “If only...” It’s a phrase that the Resistance repeats over and over: “If only we had Walker…”; “If only we had a tank…”; “If only we had more people…” Sometimes the pacifist doctor or a pragmatic collaborator chides the group for their simplistic idealism: Shouldn’t we aim for achievable progress instead of impossible utopia? Instead of “If only we had...”, shouldn’t we instead ask “Okay, what do we have and what can we do with it?” This is a debate worth having--after all, it’s a debate that both of the major American political parties have been having internally for the better part of the last year. But despite the game’s earnest tone, Homefront never leaves space for these ideas to be debated narratively or mechanically. Instead, the dissenting voices are shut down and the Hail Mary pass is reaffirmed as the only way forward.
A ruined Earth populated solely by killer robots is an unlikely place for quiet and poignant moments, but Nier: Automata’s ability to pull them off is its best feature. No humans remain on the planet, so machines and androids struggle to find purpose. Through a mixture of quests and brief exchanges, you encounter machines who read the works of long-dead philosophers, and androids driven mad by never-ending conflict. These scenarios are accentuated by a haunting soundtrack that establishes a perfectly bleak atmosphere. Even though some scenes are stilted and forced, the strangeness is consistent, and the characters are compelling enough to keep propelling you forward – often in spite of the gameplay.
Some parts of the game world have no collision, so you'll fall right through them. Other parts, presumably where the designers didn't want you to go but which look completely innocent, kill you with invisible "radiation" in seconds. The fast travel system broke on me at least half a dozen times, forcing me to restart the game entirely. I had dialogue from earlier missions trigger again in later missions hours after I'd heard it the first time. Similarly, while fighting my way through the game's last dungeon, my mission objective reverted to one from the very beginning of the game. Every aspect of the game I can think of--animation, sound, menus, mission logic and scripting, interactions with the environment--had things break or go sideways at one point or another. One of the late-game dungeons has a high likelihood of dumping you into an infinite-respawn loop if you so much as die in it once. I say the likelihood is high because I got it to happen four separate times across the Xbox One and PC versions of the game. It's enough to make you question how a game even goes out the door like this.
Early in the game, before purchasing upgrades to make Shantae attack harder and faster, the challenge is high. Unforgiving checkpoints make the first bosses harder than they should be. The result is a difficult early game, and a breezy later game thanks to upgrades and transformations that lend Shantae new mobility options like being able to fly. Near the end, while bypassing platforming challenges and blowing past bosses, I yearned for a better difficulty balance that never surfaced.
But there are appealing aspects too. Scanning environments on a newly discovered planet doesn't get old, or at least it hasn't yet for me. Yes, you'll see the same assets recombined in various ways as you play, but even apart from the financial benefits--you earn additional money by uploading your discoveries to a galactic database--it's a wonderful sensation to know you're the first person to see this particular thing, whatever that thing happens to be. And even though engaging with the wildlife on any given planet rarely amounts to much--feeding the more docile creatures sometimes nets you additional resources they scout for you, or occasionally excrete for you--I still like doing it. I like befriending these Frankensteined animals, no matter how grievously repellant they might be. By no means will this grind work for every player; I often wondered not if, but when it would ever stop working for me. But for the subset of players who, like me, succumb to No Man's Sky's perpetual thrum of galactic busywork, it does the job.
Old Time Hockey offers two basic modes: exhibition versus that allows up to four players to face off in one-off competitions, and a story mode. The latter focuses on the trials and tribulations of the Schuykill Hinto Brews, a struggling minor league team that recently had three of its best players paralyzed in a wicked brawl with a rival team. You assume control of the team midseason, with the goal of lifting them out of the cellar and into the playoffs. Newspaper updates and text overlays during loading screens chronicle the mishaps of this gang of misfits, who drink and smoke during games, fistfight a mall Santa, and even trade the team’s beer cooler for a new goon.
Not finding hearts in the wild is one of many seemingly minor changes that add up to make the game feel so much different than its predecessors. Rupees are rarely found in the field, as most are earned by selling materials and completing sidequests. Twilight Princess surprised me by requiring five heart pieces to make a container instead of four, but Breath of the Wild goes several steps further and omits them altogether (new hearts are earned by trading in orbs earned in shrines). You’ll be snatching fairies out of the air with your hand, as bottles are gone. Boomerangs will fly right back over your head if you don’t press A to catch them. Cutscenes feature voice acting. There’s a jump button.
, The ability to tweak it to the version of Full Throttle you want (I’d recommend the wonderful original art with the excellent new sound and music) rules out most complaints you could have. It needs another pass for minor bugs mentioned above, but nothing is serious. In the end, this is Full Throttle made playable once again, and that’s something to be celebrated. It’s a really fantastic game, with a lovely story, and brilliant performances. And out of its original timeline it’s free to just be itself, not compared to the last or the next LucasArts adventure to hit the shelves. If you loved the original, this is worth buying for the improved sound alone. If you never played it, then oh my goodness, hurry up!, Full Throttle Remastered is out now for Windows Steam, Humble and GOG for £11/$15/€15 (although currently sporting a 20% discount)
Both of these premises have potential. Though it might seem uniquely suited to a sort of boilerplate, rah-rah nationalism, there’s a place in my heart for alternate history stories about besieged Americans trying to survive while figuring out what the hell it means to be “American” anyway--Man in the High Castle proved that this sort of fiction has legs over 50 years ago. And, you know, “What if Far Cry, but in a city” seems like a sound enough idea to build a game around; urban environments may not have the same attraction for some as Far Cry’s idealized, “exotic” locales, but cities offer their own sort of beauty.
You punch, kick, and spin your way through missions to get to the end of story mode, which only takes a few hours if you continually need to restart levels (the game itself is much shorter). Docks, casinos, warehouses with conveyor belts, and other locales conjure up notions of the classic titles. The sounds and settings transport you back into one of those old games, right down to the signature clink of a metal bat hitting the ground. Classic opponents like Abobo, Burnov, and Linda are immediately recognizable, and there are a few new faces as well. 
Goals like delivering heart containers to a specific location, herding stubborn fireflies in bug-catchers, and transporting fish from a pond to an aquarium are scattered through both World, a mode that can be played solo or with one co-op partner, and Party, the game's 2-to-4-player co-op mode. Though your objectives are usually clear from the start, the paths to achieving them rarely are. "Get the ball into the hoop" is immediately understandable, but the characters can't jump high enough to dunk the ball in. I probably could have timed my characters' jumps to be able to whack the ball into the hoop, but instead I cut a ball-sized scoop out of one character, stacked that character on top of the other, and did the equivalent of a jump-shot. I don't know if that was the intended solution, but that's what I like so much about the puzzles of Snipperclips: They give you the freedom to solve the puzzle your own way.
As you play more with the characters, you level them up and get better gear. Thankfully, their associated stat boosts don’t matter in the skill-based duels and brawls, but they can make a difference in some of the other modes. You can earn them via random drops or buy blind bundles of gear using the in-game currency, steel, which is earned in matches and daily missions. Earning steel through matches alone is a slow process, with a typical Dominion battle earning about 40. You need 500 steel to open the best bundles, and even more to purchase additional taunts, costumes, or other cosmetic items. Most of this is purely optional, but it’s a little gross to see more than $200 of microtransaction content laid out the first week of the game’s release – including the ability to fast-track your way to character feats that would take dozens of hours to otherwise unlock, or to purchase a special account status that earns you additional loot and XP.
Players step into the daily life of a taciturn (but not totally silent) high-school student and divide their time between self-improvement, building friendships, and fighting evil in otherworldly dungeons. The basic structure may be familiar to fans, but Persona 5 builds on it with an intriguing premise and fantastic cast.
Most of the features and options from Horizon 2 map right onto the new game, but the biggest departure is the world itself. Horizon 3 is set in Australia, and it's a much better place to drive than the European locale of the previous game. It's got great variety, from beachfronts to rainforests, deserts to downtown. It's got a solid mix of paved roads, dirt, and fields full of stuff for you to jump over and smash through. The game also looks great, with nice weather effects and lighting that helps tie the whole thing together into a pleasant package.
Everything you do in the game contributes to an overall level system broken down into different buckets representing types of experiences like exploration, daredevil-type stuff, tricks, and even biffs. From here you can spend your earned credits on a bunch of customization items like outfits and cosmetic equipment. The system opens up the different mountains, but Steep does a good job of doling out challenges here and there even on mountains that you haven't fully unlocked, so you're not stuck grinding XP at a specific location just to get elsewhere.
This year’s game excels both on and off the field. Both Road to the Show and Franchise mode received major facelifts to try and shake up the age-old foundation they are built on.
All that said, keeping them all alive has its benefits too. The side missions you end up embarking on for each lieutenant offer up some additional backstory for each of them, and some of the strongest writing in the game crops up during these sequences. You learn about the various people who betrayed Vito and led him to the point of expecting death around every corner, discover the ties Burke still holds to the IRA and his frayed relationship with his surviving daughter, and grow to understand Cassandra's larger goal of arming the people of The Hollow against the myriad elements that would seek to oppress and destroy them.
The navigation tools and options are a vital part of enjoying the world. Players can restart challenges or see the entire world map at any point, and flitting from one thing to the next without loading is part of the fun. Not too long into the game, you can buy helicopter tickets that take you virtually anywhere, and designated drop points not only point you to fun areas but must be found as part of the game's explorer spirit. Also, being able to drop into different points and replay a run makes sure you're diving right into the good stuff. The one tool I wish Steep's world map had is a filter for specific events and locations.
To make matters worse, performance issues render the back half of the game nearly unplayable. Many of my deaths were not because of my own bad moves, but because the game stuttered or slowed down to a crawl once enemies started pouring onto the screen. When a single hit can make you you lose up to 10 minutes of progress, that’s unacceptable. I also encountered two game-ending crashes that robbed me of nearly an hour’s worth of progress altogether since the game only saves when you beat a chapter, not at each individual level.
With minimal stat-tracking, a lack of a progression system, and no long-term play options like seasons or tours, I don't feel compelled to return to any of the modes outside of the allure of the simplistic gameplay and working to find the best characters for my playstyle. Luckily, that aspect does add some interesting wrinkles into the mix.
Joule is one of a handful of maintenance workers on a desert world called Far Eden, cryosleeping away the decades while an army of "corebots" terraforms the planet into a lush garden world suitable for the remnants of a plague-riddled humanity to settle on. The rest of the people are also in stasis aboard ships in orbit, as far as Joule knows, but she wakes up way past the terraforming deadline to find Far Eden is still an arid waste and most of the corebots have been up to no good. Joule and her trio of friendly robotic helpers set out to try to get the planet-building gear back up and running, and figure out what's going on with all those bad bots. Joule's robot buddies are endearing as all heck, and even with no discernible dialog they show a ton of personality just through their body language. But there aren't really any other meaningful players in the story, nor any significant story development at all. Along the way there are a couple of intriguing revelations about the terraforming effort and the state of affairs back on Earth, and the idea of robots rebelling against their creators and dooming humanity's last hope in the process is interesting on its face, but the game so profoundly fails to reach a satisfying conclusion about any of this that, having finished ReCore, looking back on the game's initial premise just makes me feel sad.
A trickle of wholesome GIFs has been tantalising us with post-apocalyptic platformer Rain World [official site] and its adorable protagonist the slugcat for some time now. It’s out tomorrow and I have been hopping and swimming and munching my way through its dripping, humid world of predator and prey over the past week to tell you wot I think. First: I am certain it’s going to become a cult hit with a crowd of hardcore, mystery-loving obsessives behind it. But secondly, it has also left me with the impression of a badly missed opportunity. Equal parts astounding and hands-tearing-out-your-hair frustrating, this adventure, like the slugcat itself, is a bit of a mix., The story is all it needs to be – you are a slugcat who has been separated from your family. Off you go into this unsettling world of narrow drain pipes and soggy piles of garbage to find them. You need to eat to survive and avoid being eaten by the various hissing lizards and fearsome critters that prowl from screen to screen looking to fill their own stomachs., , The blue fruits hanging from vines and bats that flutter about are your first introduction to the dining rituals of the slugcat, but there are many more types of food. There’s no constantly-depleting survivalist meter as such, just a line of seven pips that fill with each morsel (the pips aren’t “health” or “stamina” but they do empty in another way, which I’ll talk about later). Like much of the game, I’d rather avoid talking too much about those later foodstuffs, because discovering exactly what they are and how to eat them is part of the game’s sense of animalistic curiousity, one of its greatest strengths. And you will have to discover most of these for yourself, because this is a game that, notwithstanding the first few screens, absolutely loathes explaining itself., That makes talking about its virtues much harder for me. I’m avoiding screenshots of many animals because it’s best in its surprising moments. When you suddenly spot a new type of beast appearing out of a hole in the ground and run to the other side of the screen in a panic. Or when you finally understand what those little blue seedlings are for. Or when a creature you thought was dangerous, actually turns out to be more or less harmless so long as you leave it alone. If there’s a puzzle element to the game (and it’d be a stretch to say that there is) it’s in figuring out how the whole food chain fits together and what your place is in it. Who eats who? What are these fruits good for? What do I do with this pearl?, , In its revelatory moments, or in moments of sheer drama (avoiding camouflaged beasts in a tunnel system, catching a glimpse of a black tail in a tank of deep water) Rain World really does shine. The world is a huuuuuuge collection of screens and environments, each with particular threats and obstacles. Each area is woven together by bolt holes, and you can see a multi-layered map of everything you’ve uncovered by holding down a shoulder button., There’s some direction in the form of small eye-creatures that appear like weeds out of crevices in the rock or rusted metal. They will point you towards bats or fruits, and sometimes flash an image of a slugcat by a bolt hole (suggesting that they might know which way your family has gone) or some other mysterious image. However, their directions become less and less frequent as you go on, I found. Regardless of their directions, the desire to explore every region as fully as possible will infect you. Overcoming pitfalls and puzzling at dead ends is all part of being a lost animal in this weird place. But obviously, there is a bigger threat than lizards and unknown beasts: the rain., , This comes periodically. I never timed it, but it felt like maybe every fifteen minutes or so. After a while, you get a sense for when rainfall is near. A little meter in the bottom left is telling you this, a cricle of dots ticking down to zero (not that the game offers you this information). But you also know when rain is about to fall because the sky starts to darken and the land shakes, slowly at first, then faster. It rains in a brief shower, nothing you can’t handle. But then this stops and everything goes still. Then: “tink!” A single sharp drop of what I can only describe as “super rain”. Tink tink! Two drops. TINK TINK TINK TINK TINK. Suddenly, the screen is lost in sledgehammer water. If you’re caught in the rain, you are dead., To survive each shower, you need to find special hibernation chambers, marked with a boxy symbol. To hibernate, you need to have eaten enough food – at least four pips worth. The hibernation process will always use up four pips of food, which means each new “morning” you are hungry again. Critically, these chambers are also your save points. And this is where it all starts to unravel for me. Because Rain World is cursed with some of the most teeth-grindingly bad checkpointing in any modern-day platformer., , The hibernation chambers are often very far apart. In theory this fits with the survivalist theme. Living “winter” to “winter” while hiding and running from vicious predators of the natural world isn’t easy. Just ask any rabbit. But in reality this means you will often be repeating the same bunch of screens numerous times only to die from a frightening creature that ambushes you out of nowhere. That’s because the other creatures are spread out at the AI’s will. Sometimes, there are none to be seen. Sometimes three predators will appear at once, blocking your way to the next area or surrounding you from multiple avenues. Sometimes you take a bolt hole into the next screen and straight into the jaws of a waiting lizard., Other times you get caught in a game of Darwinian Pacman, trapped in narrow passages between two types of beast, both vying for your blood, with no way past either of them. It is all completely random and unavoidable. The best solution to getting past predators is often to accept death and try again – because next time they might not be in the same place. While all this replicates the brutish, nasty and short nature of the wilder-apocalypse, it makes for a frustrating platformer. Early on, the repetition of screens and areas is more forgiveable. But later you will navigate twenty or so screens only to die from some accident of fate. When you respawn, none of the map you have uncovered has been saved. This might have been Rain World’s most serious crime, if you didn’t count the controls., , These are a baffling frustration. Sometimes you’ll land from a height and roll without meaning to, sometimes you’ll press down to duck into a hole and end up rolling around on the ground like a vulnerable white meatball. Very often, you will enter tunnels backwards, travelling much slower than normal (there’s a way to turn around, but it too is slow). Sometimes you’ll wiggle left or right while on a pole, trying to prepare for a jump and the game will think you want to “unhook” from the pole, resulting in a lethal fall. Sometimes you’ll be legging it from a deadly creature and suddenly stick to a pole because of the way your thumbstick is angled. I can’t count the deaths I have suffered because of an annoying control issue, whether it was rolling off a tower or ducking into the wrong crevice and missing my chance to escape into a proper bolt hole., These crevices are particularly frustrating. They are everywhere, carved into walls and the ground. Other creatures can appear from them, which is fine, because this makes it feel like your predators have their own separate system of bolt holes. But to you, they are totally useless, and worse, they get in the way. They are stubby dead ends not deep enough to hide in, yet the slugcat will start to clamber in if you are pushing the stick vaguely towards one. This would not be such a big problem, except that real bolt holes are almost always surrounded by these false nooks. Put this together with awkward, sticky controls and you will often be putting your cat’s head down the wrong hole. In split-second pursuits, this means the difference between life and death. Back to the last hibernation pod for you, kitten., , That’s just one example of the way the tar-like controls taint the sense of adventure. The process of holding and throwing objects is also weirdly inconsistent. I just wrote and subsequently deleted an entire paragraph in which I tried to explain the system of picking things up, swallowing them, regurgitating, putting them down, throwing, and swapping items between paws. I deleted it because the description was so riddled with minor details and exceptions that the paragraph read like a bizarre legal document., “The left paw will be the thrower, insofar as there is no spear in the right paw, until such time that there is another more lethal object in the counterpaw, in which instance the thrown object will defer to the judgement of the game’s instructions, or to the nature of the object in the right paw.”, , It’s a mess. Carrying a useful object ten screens to use it in a particular place, and then accidentally throwing it away just as you approach your goal, is a regular occurrence. All these problems are especially surprising because the game markets itself as having a hero with “nimble movements” and “natural fluidity”. But I cannot think of a less befitting description for this troublesome animal. It’s a shame. For a platformer bad controls can be fatal. I don’t think they outright kill Rain World’s charisma and charm, but they’ve definitely maimed it., In many ways, Rain World isn’t trying to be a platformer – it is more in love with mystery and discovery and it pays equal homage to the Metroidvanias of the world. But in all the important mechanical ways, it remains tied to that ancestral genre of leaping from ledge to ledge. You need to run and jump and climb and swim and throw things, often at speed in order to escape some otherworldly nasty running behind you with its toothy maw ajar., , Yet the controls feel stubbornly designed. Sticky, surly, often uncooperative. There are so many things that would make them feel better (a higher jump, less “weight”, a more sensible way to throw, drop and swap items) and yet those considerations seemed to have been ignored in favour of a method of movement that, yes, looks sublime yet often handles horribly., People will look at the toughness and the deaths and cite Limbo as a comparison. But for me, it is much more reminiscent of Abe’s various Oddysees and Exodduses (Exoddi?) The world is gorgeous, the characters are likeable, and the enemies especially are scary and fascinating in equal measure, and are often pitted against one another in clever ways that make the landscape feel bustling with life., , But Abe too had an aggravating control scheme (although his required pinpoint precision and meticulous timing, whereas the slugcat just feels sticky). Abe too forced you to run onto new screens in a panic without knowing that there would be a pitfall or a trap waiting for you. Abe too sought pleasure in being masochistic. A carnivourous plant disguised as a pole is simply Rain World’s version of an unlabelled lever that, when pulled, crushes you beneath a giant rack of ribs. In so many ways it echoes the strengths of that lovable green farter but it also retains all the flaws, and in fact introduces whole new ones – at least Abe gave you a quicksave., Modern platformers that want to be difficult have learned the value of a quick and nearby spawn. Fell into some spikes? Never mind, says the game, and one second later you are at the last brick wall you leapt from. The slugcat doesn’t get this treatment, instead it is transported back to the nearest save point, the last hibernation chamber. The things you have done to the environment have been undone, the parts of the map you revealed have been recovered in shroud. You are ten screens back from where you were, only now the predators and prey will be in different places., , It can get hugely frustrating, especially in those parts of the world where you have to navigate bothersome pools of leeches, or wall-jump up long shafts, or seek out a certain object before facing an otherwise impossible obstacle. Having to repeat these areas doesn’t feel like an exercise in hardcore gaming, it just feels like a chore. Some of the areas feel like you’d need the developer’s debug tools just to get through. It’s demoralising. You want to explore the next area, encounter the next weird tentacled species. But the game does everything it can to stop you from doing this. It is astounding that, after navigating twenty or thirty screens, you will die because a random enemy has spawned off the edge of the screen, impossible to see, and snapped you up with its tongue., The oddest thing about it is that, like the controls, this difficulty feels entirely deliberate. It is like Rain World wants to have the strength of difficulty we find in Dark Souls. But that classic of dying and re-dying had the impetus of soul currency, a sense of gambling, a sense of pace, and the relief of clever shortcuts with near-perfect geography. Not to mention the HUGELY SIGNIFICANT gesture of always putting the enemies reliably in the same place, like a solid, immovable set of spiky hurdles. You always had the means to overcome and defeat them. You just needed to learn., , Here there is only the obstacle of repeating the same awkward platforming sections over and over again, sometimes being put out of your misery by a creature that gobbles you up out of the blue or makes your intended route suddenly impassable. It takes everything platformers have learned not to do over the last 10 years and throws each lesson over its shoulder into the waste basket. It definitely gains some originality thanks to this exercise, but it is often at the expense of basic playability., I’m wailing on it quite a lot here, which may seem unfair. But it’s only because so much potential has been lost. There’s a ton of things to fall in love with. The world is vast and wonderfully drawn. The process of discovery is wonderful, and it puts an encouraging amount of trust in the player to figure things out by themselves. As for the natural world it conveys, it can feel like living through a surreal season of BBC’s Planet Earth, set thousands of years after mankind’s demise. I have had run-ins with animals that have made me shiver, squeal or grin from ear to ear. A particular creature was so instinctively frightening that I had to take a short break to regain my courage before taking the slugcat on a long swim across some open water. He did not survive., , And there’s depth here too. Creatures and mysterious personas are hidden at the extremities of the map, offering some small aid or boost, although you might not know how or why they do so until much later. There’s a method of travelling vast distances and it takes some experimentation to figure this system out. You might put something in your gullet and forget all about it, only for it to become suddenly very helpful two regions later, where you can vomit it up and put it to use. And these are just the details I figured out. There’s much more that I’d love to discuss with another player – what do those little [REDACTED] do? Did you visit the [REDACTED] with all those terrifying [REDACTED]? And – oh my god – what exactly are the consequences of eating the [REDACTED] by that [REDACTED]?, I’m at a disadvantage with the review copy, see, since I don’t have the sanctuary of discussion threads or friends who’ve already clocked it to relieve my most pressing confusions, unlike y’all. It’s a game that I think will benefit from that out-sourcing of help, the many hands and many eyes of the internet making up for the lack of in-game teachings (although, being honest, it feels like it could have benefited from more voices in the testing phase too – maybe one of them would have said: “Uh, don’t you think the controls are a bit wonky?” or “Maybe we should, like, lay off”)., , So I don’t want to rubbish the experience too much. Apart from the mysteries and secrets, there is a cracking array of vicious wildlife on show here, and their accompanying methods of predation can be as impressive as they are unsettling. It often feels like a real, brutish ecosystem. Even if the AI sometimes acts weirdly, spasming in a corner, or twirling around in endless circles, it still seems earthly, red in tooth and claw, but also alien and unknown. Finding out exactly how that aquatic animal feeds or which sub-species of lizard acts in which manner is a joy. I just wish I could do that without having to repeat the same swim through cramped and flooded tunnels for the fifth time. Or the same protracted run across the ultra-dark [REDACTED], with, yes, a shelter at the end but also a perilous drop that undoes everything you just did., I feel like time and the fans will absolve it even of its awkward controls and terrible checkpointing. But in the same way that Dark Souls drop-outs often lament that they cannot explore Lordran in some sort of easy mode, I wish that Rain World was not so obtuse and punishing. Unlike Dark Souls, there’s no real reason behind the difficulty, no sense of purposeful design. And often there is evidence of some terrible design. Why are there poles drawn in the background, in almost exact same hue as the foreground’s ‘usable’ poles? Why does the ‘transition’ point from one screen to another sometimes land in critical areas – during a dangerous jump or (in one case) a winding vertical climb infested by invisible lizards, who snap you up from unseen positions far above the edge of your view. How it expects you to see the creatures before you are even on the next screen, I don’t know. Attention game makers: there is a difference between in being “hands off” and being straight-up neglectful., , Mostly, the feeling I have come away with is frustration. The philosophy here isn’t “we refuse to hold your hand”. It’s more like: “we are going to cover your hands with lubricant and task you with climbing a fireman’s pole”. The game doesn’t seem to realise that it’s strength isn’t in difficulty, or repeating areas again and again, but in discovery and wandering, in exploration and a sense of wonder., At 20 hours, having discovered just 8 of the regions, I threw the gamepad aside with a mixture of exasperation and disappointment. There are those who will relish the challenge but I never found the slugcat’s family, and not just because there were no clues or direction as to their whereabouts. There was a big part of me that didn’t want to stop playing and maybe I’ll pick it up again some day, because there is so much to love about discovering the laws of nature behind this huge, ruined ecosystem. But with each random death, each accidental roll off a cliffside, each checkpoint drought, that love turned to ash. There is so much beauty and intrigue and diversity of life in Rain World. It’s a pity the game doesn’t want you to see any of it.
And yet things just get crazier from there. The whole thing is set on a Mars that's become a galactic power plant by way of siphoning "Argent plasma" through a portal to the demon realm. Yes, mankind solved its ongoing energy problems by... fracking Hell. The game doesn't dwell on this point, but rather takes it in stride as it cynically explores the office politics of harnessing the devil for shareholder gain. I encourage you to check out every data log you can get your hands on, so you can read the employee handbook's guide to a level 3 demon contamination event ("Simply close your eyes, kneel down, and wait. Remember you can be as useful in death as you are in life.") or ludicrous corporate memoranda about the "project to weaponize the demons." An ever-present company hologram man hangs around to provide some great rah-rah corporate cheerleading. ("The road to Hell is paved with... Argent energy!") There's a lot of darkly comedic stuff in here, and it's all somehow gloriously stupid and extremely smart at the same time. Whoever wrote this game deserves a medal.
A few years ago, I probably would have forgiven Styx: Shards of Darkness [official site] a multitude of sins (and though there is not a multitude, there is one honking great sin). A proper stealth game that isn’t low-rent or poorly balanced, with a choice of paths and abilities but which doesn’t devolve into routine action – we didn’t used to get too many of them. , Recent times have given us new Dishonoreds and Deus Exes and Metal Gear Solids and Hitmen, endless Assassin’s Creeds and even a so-so Thief, the game Styx most resembles. Hell, even the new Zelda game has a functional stealth element to it. We are spoilt for stealth choice, and that makes this fantasy wall-hugging sequel a tough sell. What it’s got on its side is purity. What it has against it is its lead character., , To get it out the way, no prior experience of the first Styx game is required to understand what’s going on here. I have not played Cyanide’s 2014 game myself, and though there is a glossing over of the setup – a fantasy world in which goblins are an animalistic pest in the world of man, but one, Styx, is intelligent – there was nothing truly unclear. The little bastard’s a thief, goddit., He’s also a Thief, with Styx’s core being based heavily on the Looking Glass stealth classic – navigate around a large area, stick to the shadows, climb over and around get the loot, get out, and if you’re caught you’re almost certainly dead. However, where Thief broadly keeps its fantasy low (i.e. trick arrows and and a tricksier eyeball), Styx spins off into a few more fantastical abilities. , , The foremost of these is the heightened mobility that being a beclawed munchkin affords him, so there’s far more climbing and hanging involved here. It’s nothing you’ve not seen in, say Assassin’s Creed, but there’s a definitely a bit more hanging by your fingernails or swinging from convenient ropes than a Dishonored. , More singular is Styx’s ability to vomit up a mindless clone of himself, which he/you can then direct to perform a few basic actions, such as distracting an enemy or knocking something onto them from a great height. Depending on what you pump your upgrade points into, this power can expand to include summoning cloney inside a mid-air cocoon or magically swapping places with him. In terms of opening up new ways to play what’s otherwise quite a familiar game, this is your best option. , , Other tricks primarily relate to various consumables, from the obvious deadly dart to short-term invisibility potions to an acid solution that dissolves bodies on the spot. The skill tree’s big enough that one playthrough will only snag you a portion of its branches, and really that’s the biggest draw here – flexibility in how you play, but always within the boundaries of a fairly pure stealth game. , While Dishonored, Deus Ex, MGSV and even Hitman to a very slight extent offer the option to be a mass murderer in broad daylight, in Styx you might survive one or two fights against a lone opponent, but generally speaking getting seen means becoming a greenskin rug. Which is to say, if you object to the presence of open combat options in your stealth games, you’ll probably get a lot out of Styx. This is a game about the art of not being seen, and not really one of madcap improv if you are. , , Escape is eminently possible thanks to Styx’s mobility, and that leads to the age-old ‘must have been rats’ reset after the murderous guards’ alert timers cool off, but running and hiding is pretty much your only option. Even then, the game so loudly declares that you’ve screwed the points bonus you get for a perfect run that the temptation to reload is overwhelming. Same goes for killing – although Styx has a whole upgrade path dedicated to silent assassination, you miss out on points for mercy if you avail yourself of your weapons. , Now, usually I gravitate towards non-lethal options in stealth games. I like the challenge of it, be it avoidance or the generally longer incapacitation sequences involved, and I like the idea that I’m being Not A Bad Dude. The friends and family of a henchman, and all that. In Styx, however, absolutely everyone is so hateful that I simply do not give a shit. Kill ’em all. They’re all shits. It’s so much easier. Shame about those experience points, mind you., , We’re shown a world in which most humans blindly murder goblinkind, and though Styx is the only one of them who can speak or, seemingly, think, this attitude stinks enough that I lose all my usual hesitation about bloodshed. What is mercy for here? , The flipside of this is that no-one in the game is more hateful than Styx himself. Perhaps some will lap up the banal venom of his humour, but for me it’s a significant misfire, to the point that I struggled to enjoy a game I otherwise would have done., I suspect the game’s creators believe that, in their fourth-wall breaking, wisecracking, sneering protagonist, they’ve made Fantasy Deadpool. He chastises the player for their failings, he makes references to films and other games and pizza, he questions the likelihood that the person who bought this game will ever find a sexual partner, he insults the developers’ wisdom and talents. (Never do this in your game unless you are supremely confident your game is basically perfect, otherwise you are essentially telling the player that, yes, they’ve just wasted their money). , , This kind of humour is playing with fire at the best of times, and Styx is very much not the best of times. The gags are incredibly broad and obvious, some of the terminology is simply insulting without being funny enough to get away with it (e.g. a woman’s weight is repeatedly mocked), many of the references are outdated and, to make matters worse, the wording often sounds like it ran through Google Translate a couple of times. , To his eternal credit, the guy who lends Styx his salty New Yoik tones is clearly a total pro, lending a certain amount of charisma to the character even though the actual words spoken are purely dreadful. I would buy that man a pint if I ever met him, and then clasp him into a sympathetic hug. Despite my sense that this was a good man in a bad situation, any time I died I found myself desperately hammering F9 in the hope I could quickload before the awful wisecrack-to-camera sequence that follows every death. And therein lies the rub – Styx would be an infinitely better game without Styx., , This is a decent stealth game saddled with wretched characterisation. Insult to injury is that it has all this sub-Deadpool bollocks while at the same time offering a deeply dour fantasy story that we’re supposed to take seriously. Once in a while, Styx’s scoffing dismissal of all the magic wank is a blessed relief, but the trouble is that then the magic wank proceeds to wank on and on anyway. This is a game that’s having its wank-cake and wanking it. , The stealth game underneath this miserable skin is solid. Often very flashy too, in its environments, range of powers and choice of routes, but undermining that sometimes severely is that its Assassin’s Creed-style ‘jump from a ledge or wall to somewhere else’ system misfires frequently. , , Too often, I plunged to my death purely because Styx did not leap to the handhold he either either appeared to be reaching for or was the only logical place to go. It’s not quite so unreliable as to make the game consistently frustrating, but something there is seriously in need of a fix. I learned to speculatively quicksave my way around it, which isn’t ideal but was enough to let me keep thinking that this is a solid pure-breed stealth game., Personally, I prefer the option for improv more than I do fealty to pure hide-or-die stealth, but it’s clear that this has put the work into making its sneaking work. Though generally saddled with a muddy aesthetic, it makes a reasonable fist of varied environments and scattering optional, harder sub-goals across them. It’ll keep you busy and, particularly if you’re playing non-lethal, demands careful planning and thought. , , There isn’t ever the magic puzzle-box feel of a Dishonored or the shocks of Thief in its bravura moments, but it mixes up its environments plenty. There’s plenty of the ‘hmm, now how can I get into there?’ of a Splinter Cell or Deus Ex. , Clearly, a lot of money and skill has gone into making Shards Of Darkness, which only makes the fact that you have to battle past this woeful characterisation to get to the strong stealth meat below all the more tragic. Give me a mod that lets me turn off Styx’s comments and I’ll like it a whole lot more. Until then, Styx out of ten.
Breath of the Wild also has issues on the technical end. Its art style and character design are among the best I’ve seen in the series, but there’s no denying that the framerate takes a big hit from time to time. This is most evident in areas like dense forests and populated towns. Things usually move along at a decent clip, but you’re bound to notice the game chugging if you take a stroll through Kakariko Village during a rainstorm. That said, I never felt like it interfered with combat or platforming scenarios at any point.
The MW Remastered multiplayer gets some more modern tweaks, like the addition of medals, calling cards, player icons, and the Kill Confirmed mode that wouldn't appear until Modern Warfare 3. The loadout options are simpler, but in some ways feel crude compared to the more flexible "Pick 10" system that has become fairly commonplace in the franchise. I played a lot of COD4. I put Double Tap onto a P90, slapped on Bandolier and Steady Aim, and went to town. I've called in and shot down more helicopters than you've had hot meals! MW Remastered is a lovely remake of an amazing game. But you can't go home again. MW ends up feeling stripped down compared to what we think of as "modern" Call of Duty games. It'd be great to see more of the classic games in the franchise get this treatment in the future, but packing it in with a core Call of Duty game just seems to offer too many options. Should I care about leveling up my weird gun robot in Infinite Warfare? Or should I be working towards unlocking that G36C in MW Remastered? Maybe this would all work better if the progression was combined across the two games or something. I don't know. It's a weird package that would feel less weird if the publisher was selling this remake on its own. It probably will, someday, but for now you're stuck buying More Call of Duty Than You'd Ever Actually Need to get it.
Combat is turn-based, with periodic button-mashing action when using certain special attacks. Position is important give each a tactics feel. Pushing all your enemies together, for example, can open up the opportunity to use a powerful Kamehameha blast to ring out everyone at once for additional damage. You can even bounce enemies into one another for extra damage, or into your team so they can volley the bad guys back to you. Every match plays out like turn-based bumper cars, and bouncing an enemy around your team to eventually watch them fly out of the ring is rewarding.
, There’s a lot that’s familiar about Robo Recall, in that many VR shooters seem to be broadly singing from the same hymn sheet despite early speculation that the technology would allow for hitherto undreamed-of ways of interacting with a videogame. This means that Robo Recall, like Serious Sam and to a lesser extent SUPERHOT before it, has a little more in common with an arcade lightgun shooter than it does a first-person shooter. , , Player-character movement remains a problem that hasn’t quite been solved, and so once again we end up with a hybrid approach that involves often staying in more or less the same spot, with a bit of ducking and diving and maybe a few short hops to either side of that fixed position. In this case, we get the point-to-teleport movement system too, which can be rather awkward but has one of the slicker implementations I’ve seen here, in that you can additional twitch a thumbstick in a given direction to specify which direction you want to be facing when you arrive. , It’s not quite second nature to do – every time the ‘port finishes I spin around like a Muppet, trying to work out where the enemy I was trying to get within range of has gone to – but it is fast., I suppose that, in theory, the requirement for Oculus Touch controllers and their attendant second motion controller means this could seek a quasi-room scale approach, but given its levels involve streets and rooftops, making its spaces adapt to your own space might be an impossibly tall order. Anyway: my point is that this is a game in which the top half of my body is moving constantly, but my legs are those of a shy 14-year-old dancing at his first high school ball. There’s a fair whack of cognitive dissonance, but it’s a bit of a workout, in weird sort of way., , I should say what I’m doing, which is shooting lots and lots of robots – or ‘recalling’ them, as the sinister robot-making corporation which has tasked me with resolving a mass malfunction/rebellion puts it. I say ‘shooting’, but it is more physical than that – though in the main I’m trying to score headshots with my hands, I can also pull bullets out of mid-air and hurl them back at the bots who fired them, or grab a bot bodily then use my other hand to rip its head or a limb off. And then hurl said head or limb at the next robot. , Robo Recall makes me a frantic cyclone of destruction, the force of my mechanical slaughter matched only by my sheer ineptitude whenever I try to teleport. It’s a party, basically, mixing the accuracy of lightgun shooting with the physicality of Wii gaming. , , Now, SUPERHOT did something similar, in terms of pairing shooting with furious arm-waving, but where that turned every encounter into a murderous logic puzzle (in what order and with what objects will you kill everyone in order to avoid being killed yourself?), this is more of a wave-based affair in which doing well enough gradually unlocks new weapon options, thus taking it closer to VR FPS norms. , It’s lavish with it though – robots dropping from the sky, mantling onto ledges, leaping over cars. There’s no escaping that you’re essentially playing arena-based score attack, but quite clearly a shit-ton of money and expertise has been gone into this, and it looks and feels some distance ahead of the VR shooter pack. , , I think I personally prefer Serious Sam, because of its cackling straightforwardness, but this is both better-presented and a whole lot more flexible, and as such probably sells VR better than Croteam’s simpler prospect. It doesn’t have the cool or ingenuity of SUPERHOT though, with the latter very much a VR essential in my book and this more of a ‘probably.’ It’s a good time and makes particularly excellent use of the lightweight Touch controllers, with their pinch’n’grab suited to gun-catching and limb-ripping in a way that the sticky-out Vive wands simply are not., Of course, the thing to know there is that, at the time of writing, you get Robo Recall for ‘free’ if you buy the £100 Oculus Touch controllers, or £600 Rift+Touch bundle. If you’ve got a Rift but not the Touch, this is a strong, relatively substantial and ultra-polished freebie that’ll make the cost of entry far more palatable. Though you’ll need to go right ahead and buy SUPERHOT separately afterwards. 
While the combat and enemies are the omnipresent highlights of the game, the same cannot be said for the environments. Despite a few great locales, the overall scenery looks too much the same, with area recycling and repurposing. The environments also represent a real hazard to the player almost all the time. With pits of poison, trap doors, spike pits, rolling boulders, and roof spiders waiting to pounce, death waits around every corner – and dying simply because you couldn’t see it coming is frustrating. While you begin to check around every corner for the inevitable ambush and groan because every single room has a ranged bomb-thrower or cannon-sniper, some of the labyrinthine castles and dungeons are overly sadistic in their construction, as if a cackling developer is quietly watching and snickering as bats fly out of a cave, throwing you off a cliff.
That repetition will likely be critically damaging to a lot of people's enjoyment, especially given how threadbare the core survival game mechanics are. Resources are mined, systems are recharged and repaired, money is gained, and so on. In between, you manage and build out your inventory so you can store more of everything. Crashed ships (or ones purchased from other aliens) give you more cargo space than the beater you begin the game with, but they're expensive, so you keep grinding. Exosuit upgrades are found on every space station, and frequently scattered across planets and moons, but they increase in cost with each purchase, so you keep grinding. This process repeats itself forever. As the game exists at the time of this writing, there is nothing to do but look for new versions of the same things, take whatever's useful for you, and move onto the next planet, all in the hopes of creating a bigger bag in which to store whatever.
“How’d this zombie stuff happen?” is usually an unanswered question in zombie fiction, and that tradition holds true in Killing Floor 2. It has no campaign to speak of, and the maps don’t offer up much in the way of an overarching narrative, either. Instead, you’re stuck in the aftermath of an outbreak, which takes you from a flaming downtown Paris to infested catacombs, subway tunnels, and a prison. The maps offer impressive variation, even if the core gameplay is the same. In most interior spaces, you can choose to weld down certain doors – a boon for controlling choke points, but at the risk of trapping your squad if things go south. A forest area doesn’t provide those opportunities, but the open spaces give your team plenty of space to run. The same can’t be said for a claustrophobia-inducing farmhouse and its accompanying barn, which can grind you to a bloody pulp if you don’t effectively monitor its various hallways. I didn’t mind the lack of a story, since this game’s focus is on repeatable fun over delivering an important message about the nature of humanity.
Your strolls are interrupted by frequent random battles, which highlight the arcade beat-‘em-up action. Both characters have several different fighting styles that can be swapped on the fly, and finding what works best for you is a big part of the challenge. Part of it is dependent on your surroundings. Are any signs or other objects handy? You could use a style that lets you pick them up and swing them at your foes. Are your opponents quick? Using an equally fast form is a good idea. My favorite was Majima’s slugger style, which incorporates a baseball bat and some brutal combos that would be at home in Mortal Kombat. You can get by with button-mashing for a while, but you’ll have to become adept if you hope to make it through the final stage or the optional combat arena.
While a revenge tale isn't new ground for storytelling, it still works for building up to key moments and making them relatable. Berseria is at its best when it shows the reasoning behind your allies' actions and developing them in interesting ways. For instance, watching one character who didn't have free will slowly turn into his own person is a highlight. You have a lot scenes and dialogue to shift through, and it's a slow burn, but it's worth it for how it all comes together. I wasn't even sure how I felt about the cast for the first 10 hours of the game, but the payoff is in how they grow and change.
While the space flight simulation genre continues to find support and solace in what promises to be a new era of multi-faceted offerings with games like Elite: Dangerous and Star Citizen, sometimes you just want that feeling of dogfighting in your local arcade cockpit with a slice of pizza dripping onto your shirt as you blast an enemy starfighter to smithereens, watching the pixels burst. House of the Dying Sun taps into a lost era of starfighting simulation, successfully evoking the feeling of a classic space shooter like X-Wing, TIE Fighter, or Starlancer. If you’re looking for a story, forget it; it’s as cliché and barebones as they come. If you’re looking for tight gameplay, great music, and intense dogfighting, you’ve come to the right place.
The limited interaction of objects doesn’t bother me, because the joy of Everything isn’t planted in what you can do. The experience is about seeing what new surprise awaits you around the bend. One moment you are relaxing as an ant beneath a tree, watching horses roam the lands before you, and the next you are a plane zooming across the sky of an alien world as a herd of pandas dances below you. I loved teleporting around and seeing what worlds I could explore. Sometimes I’d zap into a normal, thriving city that just happened to have gorillas running wild in the streets. Other times, I would roam around a purple planet decorated with skyscrapers and pagodas as well as alien plant life.
Gears of War 4 is a great-looking game both on the PC and Xbox One, though with its higher frame rate potential and better resolution options, the PC version is the way to go, if you're able. The only real catch is that PC and Xbox One players can't mingle in the public, competitive side of the game. So if you're going in looking to play with friends against other humans, you'll all need to commit to the same version of the game to stick together. Horde mode and co-op don't enforce that same limitation, though it's easy to see why you'd want to keep the higher-fidelity mouse-and-keyboard crowd away from the controller users in competitive matches.
Though the action wears thin, the world around you never does. Crumbling pillars surround scenic pools, rickety bridges extend from towers, and magical artifacts glow with menace. I enjoyed drinking in the scenery and speculating about the connections between this game and its predecessors; just like in Ico and Shadow of the Colossus, you explore decaying structures that imply an eerie, unspoken narrative from long ago. As for Trico and the boy’s tale in the present, I can only say this without spoiling too much: It’s a contemplative journey focused on teamwork and friendship, with minimal (yet impactful) story beats. It took me about 12 hours to finish, and the conclusion left me satisfied.
The Witness provides further evidence that video games are approaching the same degree of authorship as more traditional forms of media, in the sense that Braid players will immediately recognize this as another game made by Jonathan Blow. Both games offer devilishly, sometimes painfully tough puzzles built around detailed logic systems that you're expected to intuit and employ with next to no guidance. Both have the uncanny ability to alternately make you feel like a genius and an idiot. Both games tend toward an austere style of philosophizing that can come off as heavy handed or self-indulgent, but which nonetheless seems to flow directly from the individual consciousness of their creator. The Witness matches and then surpasses the exhilarating a-ha moments of Braid's most unconventional puzzles, while also one-upping the simple, discrete platforming levels of Blow's previous game with a sprawling world that's as impressively interconnected as it is starkly beautiful and laden with secrets. This game has been dogged by comparisons to Myst throughout its production, but the comparison is so apt that it's hard not to use that old CD-ROM standard as a starting point. The similarities are overt--again you're a nameless, wordless protagonist exploring a deserted island full of bespoke contraptions and no small amount of mystery--and also tonal, with a softly brooding atmosphere punctuated only by your footsteps and the wind. But the way you engage with the world of The Witness is more focused than Myst's legion of various levers and dials, since all of your interactions with the game come in the form of maze-like line puzzles displayed on screens dotted all over the island. Hundreds of them. There's no inventory, no physics objects to play with, no jumping or even stepping off of ledges. Just panel after panel after panel to complete as you peel back the many layers of the island's intricate secrets. But The Witness is much, much more than just a series of standalone logic puzzles packaged up in a pretty graphical wrapper. Ferreting out the nature of the many different types of puzzles that exist on the island--how their individual rule sets work and interact with one another, what effect they have on their surroundings, and in turn how their surroundings can affect them--is 100 percent of what there is for you to do in this game, and the extent to which you have to really work for many of the solutions can be exceptionally gratifying as you fumble and reason your way through the game's many hours. As such, ruining any of the surprise about how these things work would do a disservice to the people who are really going to enjoy this game, so I'll try to be vague in describing what's in here, and I'd encourage you to read and watch no more about this game than you need to decide if you're interested in playing it. The game never offers a word of explicit tutorial, instead loading you directly into the game world and turning you loose to explore and learn and solve. Most of the island's distinctive areas offer a relatively simple starting set of puzzles that "teach" you the puzzle rules that apply to that area. In practice, the game doesn't spell anything out whatsoever. You learn entirely by doing, and the sparse information you can glean from the trial and error of figuring out the starter puzzles is immediately useful in some cases--allowing you to go forth and apply what you've just learned to more complex problems and push forward in the game--but agonizingly unclear in others. In a couple of spots, after being stuck on more complex later puzzles for hours, I had to return to earlier similar puzzles and simply stare at them, asking myself questions about how they worked and what sorts of pieces they were made out of, before the lightbulb flickered on and I could progress. But the lightbulb moment is why you play this game. It's certainly possible to overthink what it is the game wants out of you--in a few instances, I eventually realized the puzzle I was trying to solve in my mind was harder than what was actually in front of me--and in general, the puzzles in each area are consistent about adhering to the theme of that area, so frequently, you just need to stop and focus your thought process. The iterative nature of the puzzle design, the way subsequent harder puzzles build on the concepts and lessons you've already absorbed--not to mention the specific, nearly hint-less environment in which I played the game--often made me realize that I was actually capable of solving harder problems than I thought I was, if I just invested a little more time, modified my approach, and focused on different concepts or details. At those moments I had to consciously stop and ask myself what I could do differently (and I could actually feel myself suppressing that impatient urge to just run to the Internet for help), which actually felt like a fun little voyage of self-discovery. Absent any sort of guide or hints, you'll have to think, a lot, to put some of this stuff together. The puzzles run a fairly even split between two distinctive styles. Many are abstract problems that operate entirely on their own self-contained logic--typically signified by various colored symbols that appear directly on the maze screen--and feel like the sort of thing you'd see on a standardized aptitude test. Then there's a more organic style of puzzle that often requires you to look and think outside of the maze's borders to the larger game world to hit on a solution. Sometimes these two types of puzzles mix and overlap. Sometimes they subvert or seemingly break their own rules. Absolutely everything about both the puzzles and your surroundings is in play, from your perspective to the lighting to the type of input method you use. You learn very quickly that you can't necessarily take any detail in this game for granted, no matter how minor it might seem. That uncertainty creates a profound mystique, a feeling that anything could happen on this strange island where the rules of reality are more than a little flexible. It's hard to convey the range of creativity in the more complex puzzles and the way they integrate into the game's world without diving into a lot of specific examples, but the range is significant. It's the kind of thing you get really excited about and desperately want to share or discuss with other people when you see and solve it. It's great stuff. The Witness didn't need to be a beautiful game for most of its important parts to work, but it sure doesn't hurt that the island is exceptionally gorgeous. The art design takes a profound less-is-more tack, building a world out of simple geometry and sparse texture mapping, and instead focusing its attention on a strong use of color and lighting to bring out a significant amount of organic detail that's too exaggerated to be called realistic, but also stops short of becoming cartoonish. This saturated, brightly lit aesthetic repeatedly brought The Wind Waker to mind, which is about as respectable a comparison as you can make in my book. The game also seems to use the trick (one that I first remember making the zones in World of Warcraft so moody) of subtly shifting the color grading as you cross the boundary between regions, so that you rapidly get the feeling you're in a different place than the one you just left. That's a handy trick to have in a relatively small land mass that jams desert, swamp, ice, mountain, jungle and forest locations all together in close proximity. And again, the visuals aren't just for show; so many of the presentational aspects play into puzzle solutions and other secrets in clever, satisfying ways. Once again I'm sitting here wondering if I should drop a couple of neat examples to illustrate the point, but no. That stuff is too much fun to discover for yourself.
The fighting is a big part of the game, and it’s another place where Yakuza’s focus on depth is evident. You can pour your cash into each style’s skill tree, which unlocks new moves and abilities. I was annoyed by how my bat would sometimes careen off walls – a particular problem in alley battles – and how overpowered enemy gunmen were. Then I realized I could unlock abilities that addressed those concerns directly. The whole game is filled with abilities and upgrades that let you tweak the experience. If you grow tired of fighting, you can unlock ways to avoid encounters or diffuse them if you can’t walk around your aggressors. I got a kick out of the battles, even though I punched many of the same faces repeatedly, and used the cash I got from the beatdowns to further hone my skills.
Some parts of Nier: Automata genuinely thrilled and surprised me, but it is a constant exercise in sacrifice. Combat has improved compared to the original Nier, but it still isn’t fully engaging. The progression system has cool ideas, but doesn’t offer enough depth. The premise is fascinating, but it is dulled by repetition. Ultimately, tapping into the sad and unique story that flows under the surface of Nier: Automata makes these trade-offs worthwhile, but I’m disappointed by how deeply it’s buried.
The mundane hunt for collectibles is also spiced up by Horizon's engaging combat. Stalking through bandit camps and silently scoring headshots is standard-yet-satisfying fare, but Horizon's robot dinosaurs really steal the show. Each of the 25 different species of synthetic beast features its own behaviors, attacks, and mechanical components that can be harvested or exploited during the thick of combat. Every species demands a cautious and thoughtful approach; even the weakest Watcher is capable of blinding you and calling in deadlier allies at a moment's notice. Taking on a bigger foe like the towering Thunderjaw feels like a full-fledged boss battle and requires multistage strategies like chipping off armor to expose weak points for extra damage, laying out traps to aid a hasty retreat, and tearing off powerful weapons to use against your enemy. Unlocking new skills and customizing your weapons with various mods helps even the odds, but you still have to think through every encounter, and Horizon is better for it.
Vroom in the Night Sky is not only the worst game on the Nintendo Switch, but easily one of the worst games I've ever had the displeasure of reviewing. This game is so bad, I can't imagine how or why Nintendo allowed it to be sold on its marketplace aside from the fact it needed more content on the console. That or someone held a gun to Reggie's head until he agreed to let them sell the game on the eShop (take note indie devs)., In this hot trash you play as a witch that rides through the air not on her trusty broom, which she has with her, but various scooters. That sounds funny and silly, right? Like, how can you fuck that up? I'd like to imagine the developers at Poisoft had a brainstorming session to come up with every way possible and then implemented them into the game., Your goal in this garbage game is to fight with the slippery imprecise controls to fly through and/or shoot missiles at giant circles with stars in them while being barked at in horribly translated broken English by a flying creature and an evil witch that poses no actual threat at all but for some reason spawns on every stage. You can also pick up or shoot stardusts, which are also earned by doing 'cool moves' like braking and 'not driving an airplane into skyscrapers ending your miserable life.' These stardusts act as currency that can be used to buy other bikes that control even worse than the one you start with, but hey they go faster so I guess that is a win, right? , , The stages in Vroom in the Night Sky are all big open squares filled with a few obstacles here and there, some of which even have textures. Can you believe it? But they all look like something you'd expect to find in a game on the original PlayStation or even the N64, as they are all blocky and hideous., Vroom features the much-hyped HD Rumble, which means your controller constantly rumbles in the exact same way the entire time you're accelerating your dumbass witch through the air. While this feels good against your nipples, clitoris, and dad-hole, it can't really get the job done as the Nintendo Switch Joy-Cons don't work when placed inside of yourself, as I've proven. Also, by the time I was done playing the game my hands were tingling and exhausted from the constant rumbling., Maybe the most laughable part of Vroom in the Night Sky is the localization, which is the proverbial cherry on top of this shitty cake. I've played plenty of bad localizations in my day, but this is easily the worst. It's so grammatically broken it rarely even makes sense, pending you can read past the typos. Yes, they didn't even bother to spell check it, let alone pay someone to localize it properly., , Do you ever think to yourself "I wonder what Kirby music would sound like if played on a Casio keyboard by a deaf geriatric at a Russian flea market?" Then you'll absolutely adore the soundtrack of Vroom in the Night Sky. All of your favorite MIDI sounds are back, and they can only be heard in this Nintendo Switch exclusive. Okay, maybe it isn't that bad, but it is pretty awful., You know the most messed up thing though? I played through this entire game and even got all but one of the in-game achievements because I'm clearly a masochist. It really pains me to say that getting the last achievement would certify me as "skilled Magical Girl" and I don't think I'll ever get it. I just can't bring myself to grind through more of Vroom in the Night Sky just to buy all the shitty mopeds just to get a meaningless reward that probably changes nothing., The Nintendo Seal of Quality is long dead, but at least you can take your shovelware on the go now. Checkmate, Steam., [This review is based on a retail build of the game gifted to me by my friend enemy NintenDaan.], Vroom in the Night Sky reviewed by Jed Whitaker, The lowest of the low. There is no potential, no skill, no depth and no talent. This game have nothing to offer the world, and will die lonely and forgotten.How we score:  The Destructoid Reviews Guide][, , , Blink and you'll miss it, Hotline Miami was an instant hit upon its release in 2012. Mixing a unique style with gratuitous violence and a self-reflective story, the game asked players to question why they were so willing to murder in video games all the time. Was it something to do with a damaged psyche or was it more animalistic?, While the sequel failed to live up to the original, not many other developers have even attempted to tackle the same style of gameplay. We’re definitely seen overhead shooters and brawlers before, but nothing that captures the intense difficulty and careful planning that defined the Hotline Miami experience. Team Shifty has taken notice, though, and is looking to up the ante., Being sold on the idea that this is Hotline Miami-like, Mr. Shifty basically apes the gameplay from Dennaton Games’ brawler and introduces teleportation. Why, exactly? That doesn’t matter; you’ve got goons to beat up!
Titanfall 2 lets you play as a human-sized robot, which can call down giant, AI-powered robotic mech suits, which you can then get into and pilot. The little robot climbs into the bigger robot, and then you boost around and blow up your enemies... some of whom are also robots. Your loadout options include ninja stars that catch on fire when they hit, burning pilots to death and blinding the giant titan suits, should your aim be true. It features a limited-use colosseum mode that looks like the developers just wanted to include a one-on-one Rocket Arena-like option. Titanfall 2 might not fix every issue you had with the previous game (and depending on your tastes, it might introduce one or two new ones), but it's a bigger, bolder game that takes a few chances and comes out better and more distinctive for it. On top of all that, it simply feels great.
I’m glad that the cooking system isn’t overly cumbersome, as it’s absolutely necessary. Among the sweeping changes to series tradition is the method in which you heal yourself. In almost every past entry, you could recover from a damaging battle by simply cutting some grass or breaking some pots until you found enough hearts. That option is nowhere to be found here. You can eat raw food off of the ground if you’d like, but you need to cook meals if you hope to have any serious source of health recovery.
The biggest enemy in Wildlands isn’t the cartel or Unidad, it’s repetition. Each region breaks down into a handful of story missions and a checklist of weapons to gather, skill points to find, lore documents to reveal, and rebel side missions to complete to bolster their ability to support your efforts. By the tenth region or so, the process feels rote. Even the DJ chatter and dialogue between the different Ghosts begins recycling rather early. I wish Ubisoft Paris better differentiated the tasks you need to complete in each region instead of giving you a cookie cutter to-do for each one. 
Once a crime scene is reached, gathering evidence is where The Devil’s Daughter shines the brightest and truly feels like a detective game. Although Holmes can tap into superhero-like abilities to scan his surroundings for clues (think Batman’s Detective Vision), most of the guesswork is up to the player. When people are interrogated, the player must create a portrait of them by scanning their body – an act that can be totally botched and can’t be changed, leading you to potentially finger the wrong suspect. Clues gathered can also be linked in numerous ways, leading to different murder suspects, and potentially the wrong people being thrown behind bars or worse. Holmes’ morality also comes into play at the end of cases in moments where players shape him as a cold-blooded detective or caring humanitarian. The writing in the cases is quite good, but the conclusions to them are sadly too abrupt, giving little resolution other than a text blurb that says what will likely happen next. All of that difficult work in the cases (each lasting about an hour or two) concludes with a fizzle rather than a bang.
In classic Resident Evil fashion, the house's architecture doesn’t make a lick of sense. The player is forced to hunt down keys, find animal-shaped objects to insert into mechanical devices, and scour the environment high and low to find healing items and ammo. You even find yourself thinking long and hard about inventory management every step of the way, questioning when to bring extra firepower, healing items, or that damn crank that somehow makes it into every Resident Evil game. Again, this sounds tedious, but it isn’t. It just makes you nervous about your odds and readiness for the next step of the game.
When Star Wars hit theaters in 1977, the concept of the summer blockbuster was still relatively new (Jaws is widely regarded as the original). Its numerous sequels and prequels joined A New Hope’s status as symbols of big-budget Hollywood escapism and the “popcorn” film. In many ways, Star Wars Battlefront feels like a popcorn game. From its slick presentation to its impressive visuals and iconic sound effects, Battlefront resembles Star Wars in almost every regard but longevity. The films have been cornerstones of pop culture for decades, but the game didn’t offer enough content to keep my attention beyond the initial dozen hours. Nine multiplayer modes are offered, from sprawling 40-player skirmishes that feature lightsaber battles and X-Wing vs. TIE fighter dogfights to more modest 12-player rounds of capture the flag and team deathmatch variants. Four areas (Tatooine, Hoth, the forest moon of Endor, and Sullust) are represented, with several maps in each to accommodate whatever mode is currently selected. With the exception of Sullust (which was only referenced in Return of the Jedi), battling in each of these areas carries a certain novelty for fans of the films. Tons of video games have portrayed these iconic worlds in the past, but they’ve never looked anywhere near this good. Supremacy is the marquee mode, with its player count and scale making it the closest analog to Battlefield’s Conquest mode. Whereas Conquest features several control points that can be attacked in any order, Supremacy features five points that have to be taken sequentially. Battlefront isn’t the first game to feature a mode like this, but marching forward to victory (or falling back to defend a point) is made more thrilling when you’re piloting an A-Wing or flanked by AT-STs. Adding to the Star Wars fan service are occasional power-ups that turn the player into one of six heroes or villains from the franchise. The rebels can control Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia, or Han Solo, while the Empire has access to Darth Vader, Emperor Palpatine, and Boba Fett. While all of these characters are significantly more powerful than the standard soldiers, the imperial forces have a significant advantage thanks to the powers of its villains. Boba Fett is particularly useful, as he’s deadly at any range thanks to his wrist rockets and flamethrower. Flying around with his jetpack and eliminating rebels with ease is a blast, and he’s a pain to pin down and take out if you’re on the other side. Playing as Palpatine is almost jarring to see, as the old man can scurry around and essentially perform Psycho Crushers in between blasts of force lightning. Inhabiting any of these six characters is enough to turn the tide of battle, and playing as them does a great job of making you feel powerful. Battlefield fans are used to seeing other players wait around on an aircraft carrier for a jet to spawn, but Battlefront’s vehicle and hero pickups are more random in nature. If you fancy yourself a good AT-ST operator, it’s not as easy as going to a specific hangar or spawn point and waiting for it to show up. Instead, the ability to hop into the pilot’s seat or inhabit one of the game’s heroes is tied to power-up icons that pop up in a less predictable manner than Battlefield’s vehicles (you might be hoping for an AT-ST but wind up with a TIE interceptor). Supremacy isn’t the only 40-player mode, as Walker Assault pits teams of 20 against each other as AT-AT walkers march towards a rebel base. As the rebels, it’s your job to secure uplink points that call in Y-Wings for bombing raids on the AT-ATs. At designated moments in the battle, these ships will be called in to attack the walkers, which is the only time that they’re vulnerable to standard weapons. Once the bombs start falling, it’s up to the rebels to focus fire on the AT-ATs (especially their weak underbelly) with every power-up and special attack they’ve got. These moments can be a lot of fun, as it feels like you’re waging a battle against a seemingly-insurmountable force. It’s tough to take the walkers out before they reach the rebel base, but it can be thrilling to see them fall if your team can strike the final blow. Playing as the rebels proves to be more rewarding, as there isn’t much in the way of unique gameplay if you’re on the imperial side. Piloting the AT-AT is possible, but that amounts to sitting in a cockpit far away from the action and shooting lasers into the distance. All of the vehicles are fun to control in the context of Supremacy and Walker Assault, but I was underwhelmed by the one vehicle-only mode. Fighter Squadron is set solely in the skies, spawning players in the cockpits of X-Wings and TIE fighters and other aerial units (with the Millennium Falcon and Boba Fett’s Slave I playable via power-ups). These airborne units feel special in other modes, as they’re essentially Call of Duty killstreak rewards that anyone has access to if they’re in the right place at the right time. When everyone has a ship, their limited abilities and functional-yet-unremarkable handling is made more apparent. Rounding out the modes are variations on team deathmatch, capture the flag, and a few that are focused on capturing points (Droid Run has you capturing and defending moving droids, and Drop Zone subs in escape pods). Two others give you a chance to play as the star characters without having to hope for an opportune lucky power-up. Hero Hunt is an 8-player mode in which one player assumes the role of a named hero or villain while the rest of the group tries to take them down. Whoever lands the final blow becomes the hero, and points can only be earned while playing as them. This can be fun when you’re the hero, but it’s frustrating to know that your chance to become one is determined by whoever happens to connect with the final shot. Heroes vs. Villains is a multi-round battle that pits three heroes against three villains, and the round is won when you take out the opposing three named characters. Non-hero players assume the roles of random grunts, and the hero roles are rotated through from round to round to give everyone a try as the more powerful characters. It’s the best mode in terms of guaranteeing your chance to play as a hero, but the format boils down to your standard round-based deathmatch with no respawns (with added grunt characters that can respawn). The lasting appeal of any multiplayer-focused game is heavily determined by its progression system, and Battlefront’s feels limited and unrewarding. Not every shooter can feature the insanely intricate level of loadout customization as modern Call of Duty games, but Battlefront’s is bare-bones by any standard. Each round grants the player credits based on their performance, and these credits can be used to unlock 24 different cards that can be slotted into a three-card loadout. Included in these 24 cards are five grenade types, eight weapons, and five temporary bonuses that operate on cooldowns. As you reach higher ranks, you’ll unlock a jump pack as well as five traits that give you persistent bonuses. Some of these cards are really useful, with the jump pack standing out as it greatly increases your maneuverability. I got a lot of use out of weapon cards like the homing shot and pulse cannon, but most of the two dozen cards didn’t spend a lot of time in my loadout. With so few customization options, I didn’t feel like I was getting rewarded as I leveled up considering I was just unlocking the ability to purchase weapons that I frequently didn’t want to use. Outside of the 24 cards are eleven primary blasters, but most of these feel pretty similar. They each have different ratings for damage, rate of fire, range, and overheating, but I didn’t see much variance between them outside of a couple that are clearly intended for short or long range. All of the weapons operate without an ammo count, as overheating is the only thing you’ll have to worry about. Beyond unlocking more of the 24 cards and blasters, the only rewards you’ll get for progressing are more customization and emote options. Expect a lot of self-referential material in the latter, with mock lightsaber fights, Tusken Raider yells, and Darth Vader’s notorious “Nooooo!” moment from Revenge of the Sith included in the list. Character customization is limited to a dozen humans with varying hairstyles, with a handful of alien heads becoming available at the higher ranks. Multiplayer’s progression shortcomings aren’t remedied by Battlefront’s single-player offerings. Included are five training missions, a tutorial, an AI battle on each of the four planets (with an option to play as hero characters), and a standard wave-based survival mode. The latter might be good for a couple of rounds with a friend, as cooperative play is available online and in split screen. Outside of that, the only thing these missions did for me was make me wish for a full campaign that utilized the great controls and production values that this game is capable of. It’s hard to not get caught up in the occasional moment in Battlefront if you’re a big Star Wars fan. I loved stalking towards rebels as Darth Vader, force choking them as the Imperial March played. As I played as a Stormtrooper on Tatooine, I stopped for a moment to watch Luke and Vader battle with lightsabers as X-Wings and TIE fighters engaged in a dogfight above them. There’s a whole lot of Star Wars seeping out of every pore of Battlefront, and no amount of forced fan service took away from the fact that some moments in this game reminded me of the many things I love about the film franchise. If the impending release of The Force Awakens has you in the mood for a casual online shooter set in the Star Wars universe, this game can certainly provide that for a dozen or so hours. Battlefront initially checks all of the boxes for being a great Star Wars game, but its limited amount of content and lack of meaningful progression kept me from wanting to return for more than a brief visit.
None of this would matter as much if the story of Homefront: The Revolution was a pulpy romp featuring outlandish heroes and four-color comic book adventures. Unfortunately, Homefront’s story is self-serious, its characterization confused, and its narrative structure sags. As taking over zones get easier and easier, the game’s boilerplate characters shout more and more about how the situation is getting increasingly desperate for the Resistance. The first half of the game spins from one character to another, never letting anyone make much of an impression. Instead, we get familiar cardboard cutouts: Military Action Guy, Angry Punk Chick, Brainy Lady Who Does Machines, Black Pacifist Doctor (he says “I have a dream,” at one point. Seriously, he says it. Out loud. And he’s wrong in the end.) Homefront especially botches a narrative of implied sexual assault and PTSD from just about every potential angle.
Trico’s lifelike qualities serve a purpose beyond being technically impressive. They play a critical role in building the connection at the center of The Last Guardian. This game isn’t just an extended escort mission; as the boy and Trico spend more time together, their interactions create a compelling sense of camaraderie. You feed it when you can, and it helps you make impossible jumps over dangerous chasms. It fights off haunted suits of armor, and you attend to its injuries. These exchanges keep the partnership from feeling one-sided, and the relationship gets stronger as the tale unfolds, due mainly to Trico’s wordless prompts and reactions. With moments ranging from light and goofy to heavy and heart-wrenching, I’ve never played a game that so effectively conveys a bond between human and animal.
Fusions stands out in the library of Dragon Ball video games as an interesting entry in the otherwise fighting-game-heavy collection. It is charming in its willingness to innovate within Dragon Ball, but it never quite executes on any of its pillars.
With more traditional RPG mechanics and a real progression system, Paper Mario: Color Splash could have been one of the best games in the series. Because of some unfathomably ill-conceived decisions during the development process, it’s one of the very worst.
Battling and collecting Pokémon feels the same, but finding Gym Badges is different. You complete Trials instead of taking on Gyms, and that’s more than just a change in terminology. Combat is still crucial to completing each Trial, but additional tasks make them all unpredictable. One has you listening to sound cues and identifying what they represent, while another tasks you with collecting ingredients to summon a powerful Totem Pokémon. I didn’t know what to expect going into each of these trials, and as a player who has collected his fair share of Gym Badges throughout his life, I enjoyed not knowing what was next. The non-combat parts of these Trials are never hard and usually played for laughs. The nature of the Trials also gives what would have been forgettable gym leaders in the past an opportunity to show some character and be more memorable. The Trial structure made me eager to go after each one, especially since they all award new Z-Moves (instead of just an icon attached to your save file).
Full Throttle shines because of its interesting cast of characters and well-paced story. Though a full playthrough will only take you four to five hours, the characters are given plenty of time to shine, including our laconic hero Ben, the kind-but-determined Maureen, and the villainous Ripburger (voiced wonderfully by Mark Hamill). The plot doesn’t veer into unexpected territory outside of some sequences near the tail end, but the characters are so endearing that it doesn’t matter. I enjoyed revisiting Ben and Maureen’s “will they or won’t they?” relationship and Ripburger’s bumbling henchman so much it didn’t matter how conventional the story of Ben’s quest for revenge was. The line-by-line writing is strong enough to make everyone compelling from beginning to end, even if they’re largely archetypical.
With Commander Shepard out of the picture, players control Ryder, a young explorer who inherits the role of Pathfinder – the one charged with finding humanity a home in Andromeda’s Heleus Cluster. Ryder has just the right mixture of confidence and uncertainty, so you feel capable while improvising in strange situations. Whether you’re brokering peace with a new race or uncovering alien technology, you and Ryder are figuring things out together. You make some tough calls along the way, but the focus isn’t on choice and consequence this time, so just about any response can feel correct.
Hacking invasions return, which are fun hide-and-seek sequences, where you either attempt to find the hacker stealing your data, or are the perpetrator yourself. The downside is you can’t exit out of these invasions once they begin, leaving you with no choice but to play out the match and rendering you unable to start other missions until it’s over. You can, however, opt out of several different online modes completely in the settings.  
, , Its cartoonish facade suggests a game of town building and ale-drinking. There is some of that – you need to build breweries and host feasts to keep your people happy, for example – but otherwise this is as classically expansionist and competitive as they come. There are a few ways to win. You can research the most “lore” for the aforementioned wisdom victory, you can kill all other clans for a conquest victory, or you can achieve the most notoriety by defeating monster’s lairs and raiding distant off-screen lands for a fame victory. In my own head, victory was not achieved until the whole map was coloured in red., Here the land is already cut into pre-made slices. Each quadrant of the map has a resource or benefit waiting to be exploited and you can’t visit or invade one without first sending a scout to reveal the section. Some of these tiles have forests which boost the wood collected by any woodcutters there. Others have lakes where you can build fishing outposts, fertile land for farming, ruins for your treasure-seeking scouts to explore, stone or iron deposits to mine, stone circles containing “lore” (you need this to research new skills and clan-specific benefits). In other words, all the things a hearty Viking covets. Even a plot of “empty land” has the benefit of allowing you to build one extra structure there., , That each plot has a limit on buildings is one of its smart designs – it forces decisions on you at all times. Each tile can only house two or three buildings and you quickly find yourself agonising over what to build and where. There are rock deposits in this quadrant, you reason, I’ll definitely need a mine. But I also need a healer’s hut to keep my villagers healthy, a training camp to recruit warriors AND a new house to allow more villagers to arrive at my town hall. Without houses, the clan can’t grow, without warriors we can’t defend ourselves against encroaching wolves, draugr and other clans, and without healers those warriors will quickly die., , This can be solved by being an expansionist pig. Colonising new areas requires a large down payment of food, so it too is a costly choice, especially in the later stages as each successive tile becomes more expensive as you grow. But it’s an obvious necessity, not only because unclaimed tiles might have delicious resources but also because you just badly need the lebensraum. Growth is on your mind at all times and there never seems like enough room to build everything you want, as you discover via your scouts that you’re hemmed into a corner of the map by wolf lairs, draugr tombs, giants’ camps, canyons, ocean, and enemy clans., , I can’t tell if the maps are being randomly generated or if there’s a library of set geography with randomised tile contents. If it’s the former, then its an incredible map-maker – all the islands I played on had chokepoints, strategic lynchpins, wealthy areas, centralised goals (a legendary Wyvern to fight for fame and glory, for instance, or a portal to hell that will win you the game outright if you can control it for 12 months running). If the maps are predesigned and fashioned with randomised elements, then they are still very well made, geographically speaking. Each starting area always seemed to be purposefully cramped but in its own way that also meant it could be easily defended from monsters in the early game. As for rival clans, the need to explore the island tile by tile means that there are no rushed invasions or skirmish parties heading out across the map. In fact, even if you can see a rival clan’s home tile, your warriors can’t delve that deep into a foe’s turf. You can’t capture or colonise any tile without already owning one adjacent to it. This isn’t an RTS of speed, it’s more one of thoughtful resource management and prioritising., , Your workforce is always central to any plan. Villagers slowly get pooped out of the town hall at your home tile and only at your home tile. Distance is always an issue and over-reaching is as much a threat as the monsters in the tile next to you. Multiple times I sent warriors to an unwise death and realised that I didn’t have the manpower to replace them, and even if I could the tiles they were most needed in were so far away and already under attack on by two different enemies that I wasn’t able to hold them all., , It’s a game of cautiously plucking people and reassigning their life’s work to suit you. Even so, you need to be careful with your wee folks because even a few deaths can knock you entirely off course. Your warriors die and you scramble to recruit new ones, so you have to take some woodcutters off their lumberjacking duty, which is fine for now, but still you might not have enough troops, so you recruit a farmer and a fisherman. Food might be tight, you think, but never mind, you need the soldiers because some portals to Helheim have opened and you’ll need men to deal with that come the winte– oh s***, winter. , , You see, there’s a small rolling calendar in one corner of your screen and when winter arrives the frost comes with it. Both wood and food deplete at a faster rate. Farms produce less and your warriors can’t fight as well in areas that don’t yet belong to you, suffering a combat penalty in the snow. It’s there on the ticking calendar, a little white bar that you roll through every year but still you sometimes fail to prepare correctly. One hasty colonisation in September can be a thoughtless drain on your food stocks. One round of upgrades to your houses and one rash building of a longship might see you run out of firewood prematurely., , In these cases people will likely become unhappy, which in turn causes them to produce less in their jobs. Then they begin to starve or die in the cold. “Well at least the houses are all very roomy now,” you might think. But before you know it winter is over and you have six fewer villagers to work with and the posh houses you just built are lying completely empty. Six deaths may not sound like a lot but in Northgard it can be devastating to your growth. And this is just a description of bad planning during a normal winter. Sometimes there are blizzards, winters so harsh that your food dwindles like it’s being eaten by rats. Sometimes it is being by rats, because that’s another type of disaster that shows up, along with the hell portals and whiteouts., , These disasters always appear in good time though, as a little red exclam on your calendar. You just need to get into the habit of preparation and over-compensating for everything, having contingency plans, keeping your expansions in check with your capabilities. The only complaint I have with these is that there’s sometimes an earthquake disaster which sets many of your buildings on fire at once. The idea is that you need to quickly repair them and hope you have enough wood to repair them all. In practice, this is just an unpleasant clickathon, finding each individual burning edifice and clicking repair as quickly as you can, like playing whackamole with burning food silos. I would always have enough wood and if a building got destroyed in the post-quake fires it was always because I had too many buildings to click on, or simply didn’t spot one of them in my hasty glancing-over of the map. The other disasters and foreshadowed threats feel strong and concerning. The earthquake is the only one that feels both weak and annoying to deal with, purely from a mouse user’s point of view., , There are other downsides. Right now there’s still only a skirmish mode. It’s strong stuff, well worth a play for anyone hankering for some thoughtful arr-tee-essing. But it’s also sad that the campaign mode remains greyed out, slotted for some future update. Likewise multiplayer is currently non-existent. This is a strategy game that I feel will thrive online like a well-watered plant, providied it is also fed enough human waste. Playing with a few enemy AI clans on the normal difficulty can give you a good run but I imagine many will only lament the lack of a multiplayer when they see how tightly-woven the game itself is. Not me, obviously. I like my casual stroll over the map, plonking down altars and longboats and assigning little men to learn about better swords from giant runestones., , It’s an impressively well-made thing, a finely-embroidered cloak of an RTS with all the elements sewn together in a pleasing and sensible way. Most importantly, the immediate environment around your home feels like it really influences your strategy for the whole match. I once spawned in an area with three hunting grounds and a fishing lake nearby, but very little woodland or stone. I had to base my entire economy on stag fillet, placing food silos in every quadrant and blocking off access to our home canyon by quickly colonising a coastal passage into our land. From this position I could trade my plentiful food with both the peaceful giants and other AI players I discovered. From here you can use the money to buy materials in a marketplace (this building slowly accumulates wood, food, iron, and stone which you can buy for coin). In the long run, this is much more expensive than mining stone or chopping wood yourself but sometimes in the early and mid-game it is the best option. I later betrayed my trading partners and murdered them. They stopped buying stag fillets., Eventually, the game ended when I got a wisdom victory of my own (one minor complaint is that this always seems to be the easiest route to victory). I had researched my little Viking heart out and achieved all the blessings of the gods. But, tellingly, I still clicked “keep playing”.
I spent a long time wandering @UtilityLimb's hostile terrain. Maybe every 10 minutes or so, I'd find another question mark, but it never materialized into an interaction. Just monoliths and abandoned facilities, with knowledge stones dotting the path between them. I learned the Gek words for "origin," "fluid," and "kneel" but I never found another sapient presence.
The zombies come in 10 flavors, too, and they also work together to create a grotesque synergy. Ordinarily, a large group of zombies is a perfect target for a grenade. That plan falls apart when a Siren is in their midst, and she lets loose a grenade-deadening scream. Whenever I was pinned by a mob of Cysts – the run-of-the-mill enemy type – a poison-spewing Bloat or fireball-flinging Husk were inevitably close by, giving my healing syringe a workout. Situational awareness is critically important, whether you’re taking on the horde solo or in a squad of six. You know those moments in zombie movies where some dummy backs himself into a corner and gets swarmed? You experience that first-hand if you’re not careful. Since you’re not a parkour expert in this game, you can’t jump your way out, either. I found it frustrating at first, but once I got accustomed to Killing Floor 2’s unforgiving nature, it became much more rewarding. Success in battle helps to keep you alive, too, in both the long and short term. 
Yes, Gears of War 4 is the latest in an increasingly long line of games to bring a card metaphor into the action. Here you'll open blind boxes (which you can grind out for a far-too-high price or spend actual money on) and get new characters, weapon skins, versus bonuses, Horde skills, and bounties. The skills are things like a card that gives you 20% damage bonus whenever you active reload in Horde mode. Bounties are things like "earn 20,000XP when you build 50 fortifications." And so on. Skill cards can be combined to increase their bonus potential and you'll earn the ability to equip multiple cards as you level up. It's a neat system that doesn't dig too deep into the single-use item side of microtransactions, but ultimately the rate at which you earn in-game currency seems way too low, making the game feel too biased in favor of real-money transactions. It's not enough to ruin the core of the Horde experience--which is one of the best wave-based survival modes in the business--but it's still a bummer.
At first glance, Fire Emblem Heroes seems meaty. A surprisingly lengthy story campaign exists as a tutorial mode and an excuse for you to fight against fan-favorites from the series, like Chrom from Awakening and Takumi from Fates. It’s not well-written, even by Fire Emblem’s clunky standards, but it does its job well enough, getting you from battle to battle quickly and giving you a villain to go up against.
If you've played previous seasons, you know what to expect from Telltale's gameplay. QTEs execute all melee actions, and you need to aim your gun and click a button to fire at zombies. Searching the environment for objects to solve problems and chatting with characters to build relationships remains a big element. To Telltale's credit, searching is a lot better thanks to the interactive objects standing out better. I never felt like I was wandering around aimlessly just to find the next object to advance the plot. The best choices still come when you've got very limited time to respond, causing you to second-guess what you've done in the heat of the moment, especially when your options are to try to talk it through or reach for your gun. I was constantly juggling the feeling of wanting to be peaceful, but worrying if I didn't strike first, something even more awful would occur.
The catch is that a lot of the race events get pretty repetitive. Each one initially opens up with exhibition races as the main event, and a rivals mode that lets you race the same course in a time attack mode. Eventually the track opens up for championships, which mostly just lets you race the same course again with the same kinds of car and class options, but you have to bundle it up with other courses to build a multi-race championship. I found that to be overly redundant.
Quills are scattered everywhere, and are easy to snatch up. I liked trading them in to expand my arsenal of moves; some abilities earned late in the game even open new areas in previously explored worlds. That realization is always exciting, but the ability pool dries up too soon, meaning unless you want to be a completionist who hunts for all 1,010 Quills, the collection mechanic serves no value in the late game.
The game also has a set of online modes that you can start seeking out whenever you like. Online Adventure lets a large group of players get together and take on events. Some can be races, others are more playful and less focused on just getting to the finish line as quickly as possible. Online freeroam... you know, it lets you drive around the world with other players and do... stuff? Co-op campaign lets a smaller group get together and knock out the game's events in team races. If I sound a little vague on the actual features found in the game's online mode, that's because I had continuous problems getting connected to other games. Frequently, the matchmaking process would just run for 20 minutes or more without actually finding anything, and the games I did get into didn't run especially well, making player cars skip across the track with lag while the AI cars don't quite move right, either.
Creative Assembly holds closely to the work done by Ensemble Studios on the original Halo Wars. At the center of the strategy is a classic rock-paper-scissors mechanic where air units are strong against vehicles, while ground troops are strong against air units, etc. Most of the missions boil down to “capture this point” or “defend this position for X amount of time,” but the gradual unlocking of new units prevents the campaign from feeling too repetitive.
Sniper Elite 4 is a well-rounded experience that delivers on multiple fronts. The campaign is flexible and full of satisfying objectives, and I enjoyed jumping into missions with a friend. The unique collection of competitive multiplayer modes rounds out Sniper Elite 4, giving shooting fans a game that’s worth a look despite its flaws.
Multiplayer is a major part of the Mario Kart experience, and Deluxe makes it easier than ever to jump in with friends or matchmaking. I played both online and local multiplayer through wireless with no noticeable latency or framerate drops. Dumping four players onto a single Switch for splitscreen action also keeps the framerate smooth, and it's great to to simply hand off individual Joy-Con controllers and get into a race or battle.
Berseria focuses on Velvet, a woman who has seen her share of tragedy. One devastating event sends her over the edge, beginning a deadly quest for revenge. The opening is powerful and grim, illustrating why Velvet turned into the hardened person that she is. She's not your typical Tales protagonist full of good deeds; she just wants vengeance, and most of the time she's downright cruel and cold in the process. I found this refreshing, because even when Velvet is at her worst, I still felt for her due to how well the game set up her backstory. Berseria has a lot of twists that I won't spoil, but Velvet meets other misfits and they uncover corruption as their world is overrun by demons.
Not all the creation options are available from the beginning. To unlock the advanced ones, you need to play through the new-for-3DS mode Super Mario Challenge – a collection of more than 70 new levels created by Nintendo. Each level also features a pair of medals awarded for completing specific tasks, like only defeating a certain type of enemy or getting a certain amount of coins. Going after these medals is fun, especially the stranger qualifiers that make you rethink how you play Mario. These levels are high-quality and offer incidental tutorial on what makes a good Mario level. Super Mario Challenge is a fun platformer campaign, and getting new mechanics is a worthwhile unlock. I prefer this way of expanding the tools over having to wait, or “hack” my Wii U.
Despite the improved hub area, the way you pursue missions and work through the story doesn’t feel radically different from Xenoverse, which is what makes it all feel so familiar. You make your way through the story, which you have played in some form or another in every Dragon Ball Z game. You do the same fights, which feel especially similar to the previous game since the combat system has not evolved.
Too often, puzzle games draw players in with mechanics that are easy to wrap your head around, but by the time you reach the end, it overly complicates the formula you originally fell in love with. Within moments of loading into each puzzle in Snipperclips, I was able to understand what my ultimate objective was. Cutting your player character down to either match a particular shape or form a tool needed to achieve a solution is gratifying from the moment you hear the clipping sound, but it's this simplicity that makes Snipperclips an enjoyable puzzler from start to finish.
It’s easy to recommend Dark Souls 3 on consoles with a single caveat: Much of what makes it work so well is the way that it does justice to the series’ own past, which just won't mean much for folks hopping onto the Souls train for the first time. My recommendation for the PC build has to come with a firmer qualification. Yes, I still really enjoyed my time with Dark Souls 3 on PC. Yes, I’ll probably play through at least one run of NG+. But my enjoyment was seriously impacted by the unpredictable performance and crashing.
Conton City is the biggest change, and it is the best part of Xenoverse 2. The hub world lets you explore, find unlockables, and just generally hang out. It can also be opened up to the internet where it functions as an online lobby hosting hundreds of players simultaneously, and plays out like a giant, weird Dragon Ball Z party. Tons of people are always standing around, all with their customized characters looking for party members to join them online. I spent most of my time standing in front of other players and exploring the myriad animated emotes. Conton City is where you get to see all the unlockable clothing and accessory items that function as references to the franchise, and interact with familiar characters. It fully embraces Dragon Ball’s silliness, and it’s where I had the most fun.
Lincoln Clay has a mission. If you've played any big open-world game of the last decade or so, you probably have a decent idea of what that mission is. In Mafia III, Lincoln is your archetypal revenge protagonist. Something has been taken from him; in this case, friends and adoptive family in a mob hit that should have left him dead too. In order to set things right, he has to tear through a detailed rendering of a familiar place--in this case, the city of New Bordeaux, which is loosely based on New Orleans circa 1968--laying waste to the various tiers of enemies that stand between him and the crime boss who betrayed him. You know this story. You know how this all plays out. You've avenged this sort of thing before.
Lots of people have tried to make educational games. Few have succeeded. Odyssey [official site] gets closer than most, in its efforts to teach about physics, astronomy and mechanics. It’s been in early access for a while, but comes out today, accompanied by a price drop. Here’s wot I think:, , Odyssey, despite the rather bold choice of name, is about following in the steps of a family who recently explored the Wretched Isles – a fictional group of tiny islands in the Caribbean, once populated by Island Caribs until an invasion of pirates in the mid-17th century. Last populated by the US army in the Second World War, the Rao family has gained permission to visit the out-of-bounds rocks to do some research during the summer holidays. You, it seems, are brmming a boat somewhere nearby when you hear the distress call of the clan’s 13 year-old daughter, Kai, so stop off to see what’s what., What follows is a first-person adventure-cum-puzzler that at first glance looks like a homemade version of The Witness. Odd boards and electric grids are rigged about around the place, and progress is gained by solving the puzzles thereon. But it soon becomes clear this is a lot less about esoteric brainteasers, and much more about exploring astronomy from first principles., , I love the ambitions behind Odyssey. It wants to educate, and not in a tiresomely deceptive way, but up front with books and diagrams and practical application through puzzles. It crafts a rather odd setting to do this, but hey, who doesn’t love exploring an abandoned island? But even so, there’s a point where it starts to feel too disingenuous. Sure, this family’s on an island during the holidays, professor parents wanting to explore some old world mysteries with their teenage daughter – your scribe – and her older brother Sid, brought along. And sure, science boff dad can’t help but want to feed his daughter’s curious mind as they go, fixing bridges, exploring pirate interference, directing her to keep a detailed journal about both the present adventures and the science she’s being taught. I’ll even accept the completely ridiculous conceit that the puzzles you’re solving to gain progress are there to prevent some unknown baddies from reaching the family, with pages ripped from Kai’s journal left nearby for – er – I guess me to read and solve., But there comes a point where this utterly un-13-like 13 year old is dryly describing her experiments to learn why a disc and a ball are lit differently by a light source, in order to understand how ancient folks knew the moon was a sphere. And she explains that she does this using her “project supplies”, items “half stuff you get from a craft store and half salvaged from the junkyard near my house, including a bunch of these cool crank wheels that make gears and sliders go back and forth.”, “Cool crank wheels.”, That she brought along, on a boat trip, to a remote island that no one is supposed to have stood on since World War II. She just has those cool crank wheels and sliders with her, in her suitcase, like any 13 year old would., Oh come on., “I mounted a light on a track, to act like the sun, between the two moons so I could crank it forward and backward. I could have just held the models up to the light, but I wanted to be precise.”, Oh come on., And it definitely isn’t helpful that the game’s opening monologue sounds uncannily like Vanessa Bayer’s SNL character Laura Parsons., , The larger mistake, beyond the stretched credulity of the format, is the balance of playing to reading. Just three or four puzzles in I’d already read 49 pages of journal. FORTY-NINE. And once I’ve finished reading the latest lengthy batch there’s then a puzzle relating to that sun/moon light machine that takes approximately thirty seconds, revealing the next wad of pages to read. Another eight pages of dense text. And four pages of this is, I swear, an aching justification for an impossibly complicated room-size combination puzzle to lower a ladder., Solve it, and the ladder comes down with another twelve pages of diary., Now, there’s nothing really wrong with these diaries. They don’t read like any thirteen-year-old who has ever existed, and I fear that lack of authenticity will do much to put off its target audience of inquisitive teens, but that’s not the end of the world. And in fact, the way the entries approach the subjects of how pre-enlightenment scientists and astronomers were able to identify the spherical nature of the Earth, and the orbits of the solar system, are brilliantly approached. It comes at everything from first principle, with Kia encouraged by her father to try to work out how the peoples of these islands could have reached the knowledge she’s been given., , Kia is smart, and likes to build models to process her thinking, and this all means as the player you learn alongside her. You, a grown up, have likely heard a good few of the reasons we can discern the not-flatness of the Earth, but it addresses the many arguments that were made over the last couple of thousand years in careful and precise terms, almost as if a primer for anyone wanting to make a flat-Earther idiot get out of their Twitter mentions in a hurry. The problem is, it does all this in text on pretend paper on your screen, rather than in what you do in the brief portions of actually playing., Yes there are puzzles where you align the sun, moon and Earth such that you can see the shadows cast, but these always come long after you’ve done the reading and been given the conclusions, and usually not to demonstrate what you’ve been told, but instead to point an arrow at a picture so you can open a door. Go down a zipwire, and then… thirty more pages of diary to read., In those thirty pages are two highlighted paragraphs, which hint to where you should position the celestial models Kia’s been writing about – 30 seconds later you’ve got another twenty-seven pages of handwritten astrophysics to read., , I absolutely did not know that ancient astronomers considered the Sun and moon to be planets, while the Earth not. I knew very little about the rationale behind the geocentric solar system, and it’s really interesting to learn about it. I’m tempted to say, “But I’d much rather have read about it in a book…” but that’s not really true. I love buying books, but I’m not so great at reading them – the reality is, I wasn’t going to have stumbled on this information were it not for this game., The problem is, the failed potential for this as a game. A sentiment best captured by, er, the game. In one of those 30-page chunks, as I read about Kia’s practical experiments to try to disprove Aristotle’s geocentric model, she recounts a conversation with her father about how pleased he is she’s doing all this. As he introduces Copernicus to the story, she writes,, “Dad said I was retracing that debate, and he was extremely happy about it, because real science is about investigation and discovery, not just reading the words of a textbook author.”, Oops., The irony is a little sore., , There are exceptions. When it’s teaching about the retrograde motion of Mars, and how this can be proven in both geocentric and heliocentric models, you do get to play with (outlandishly complex) machines to see this in action. That makes a difference. But it’s still so dismissive, there to be a puzzle, rather than an application. , , And so it goes on and on. I admit I’ve not finished it. I’m 200-something pages into this diary, and it’s getting into Aristotle’s mistaken beliefs about the speed of falling object’s, and Kia’s exhaustive experiments to prove him wrong. And still all the learning is taking place in the book, the puzzles really only tangentially related., It calls itself “The Next Generation Science Game”, but the reality is this feels like something very last generation. Not just the somewhat clunky graphics (they’re nice enough, but look a good few years old), but the whole approach feels like something that misunderstands how games can really be applied to education. Just look at Minecraft, for goodness sakes, to see that it’s about experimentation and application, not book reading and tests. I think there will be kids who will really appreciate this, but I suspect it’ll be those who would have enjoyed being given a textbook about the subject almost as much. I really cannot see it drawing in the crowds to accidentally learn physics and astronomy while they play. Mostly because there’s almost no playing! I love that it’s tried, and it certainly is no disaster. But I really can’t work out exactly who or what it’s for.
Strap in. Mass Effect Andromeda [official site] is out on Tuesday in the US, and then because EA still lives in 1987, in Europe on Thursday. I’ve played it for over 70 hours, seen the main ending, and am entirely ready to tell you wot I think. It’s well worth reading my previous piece on the first few hours, as there’s much there that’s relevant that I’ve not repeated below., Mass Effect Andromeda feels like a game that exists because there needed to be a new Mass Effect game. It’s hard, as deeply as you explore it, to find something that shows any other reason for it to be. Despite the extraordinary opportunity of a fresh start, fresh characters, and even a fresh galaxy to set it in, this feels like a lengthy rehash of what came before. It is bad in many ways, from its madcap AI, poor character faces, dated design and most of all, horrible writing, but its biggest crime is just how unavoidably, all-encompassingly dull it is for so, so many hours., , There is an odd phenomenon, however. I’ve played for something like 75 hours. I was being thorough, focusing on what to me seemed the most important tasks, but endlessly drawn into side quests and mini-adventures. And yet there is a wealth of game remaining, even after the official ending. It let me do that, play the way I picked (or, as the case really was, the most bearable way), and that’s a huge achievement, something very rarely seen outside of Bethesda games. And in that time, I found what I enjoy in Mass Effect Andromeda, the aspects of an utterly enormous game that let me have some fun. Qualified fun, fun incessantly interrupted by bugs and irritations, mistakes and the unceasing misery that is its turgid, sophomoric writing. But some fun., , This is the story of the inhabitants of the Milky Way venturing to a new galaxy. A group of one hundred thousand or so members across five races (Human, Turian, Asarian, Salarians and Krogan) making the extraordinary trip across dark space to go somewhere completely new. A six hundred year cryo-frozen journey, to explore what might be. It is, in its concept, so massive, so wonderfully bursting with possibility, so hugely exciting. It is, in delivery, just about as unambitious an approach to the idea as you could think of., This tale of discovering Andromeda – or at least the Hellius cluster within it – is populated by some cardboard cut-outs from a science fiction display stand. Rubber-masked baddies (with the least scary-looking big bad of all time), an astoundingly familiar alien race, and – just to ensure no originality could slip in through a crack beneath the door – an ancient, mysterious and technologically accomplished missing race (with a peculiar love for airport puzzle books)., Think about a new galaxy, a whole new potential of life forms, of evolutionary exoticism, of astounding new ideas. Now discard them all and think of intensely familiar bipedal people living in ordinary cities with ordinary thoughts, relationships, educations, jobs, and would you believe it, technology exactly on a par with what you just happened to bring with you. Floating octopuses that think in cascading colours? Societies based on amorphous interaction? Ideas better than the ones I’m throwing out? Nope, not a single thing., , You are a Pathfinder, either male or female, named Ryder. You gain the title of Pathfinder within the opening moments of the game despite not being qualified or experienced for the role, without it ever being meaningfully explained, and then are immediately treated like the second coming. It is, as best as I can cobble together, a job title for someone who surveys whether planets are suitable for living on, aided by an AI that directly interacts inside your brain. Each of the five species shipped twenty thousand souls, and one Pathfinder and one AI, called SAM. Except when your human ark shows up, you crash into a strange space anomaly that’s twisted throughout the cluster known as the Scourge. It wasn’t there on your magic quantum telescopes when you left, but (and I’m not being facetious here, this genuinely is the plot) no one thought that things might change on planets over the course of six bloody centuries. Things changed, and the galaxy isn’t as you were expecting, the planets aren’t suitable for habitation, and before you turned up the people who set off early to establish the nu-Citadel, the Nexus, had a big falling out and an awful lot of them were exiled., As if that weren’t drearily inevitable enough, there’s also a race of cartoon baddies called the Kett, whose grumpy gnarled faces ensure you realise they’re bad, who shoot at you on sight for no reason (in fact, against all reason when you learn more of their nefarious plans) wherever you go. Oh, and just in case this didn’t feel like all the other Mass Effects, there’s ancient alien tech on all the planets that just might help. Off you go., The AI, SAM, is an invention of your father’s, and is a key aspect of the game. You and he communicate all the time, and you are required to use a scanner all the time, with SAM adding colour commentary on what you see. So of course the matter of AI becomes a crucial one in the story, what with AI having been banned in the Milky Way, and people very nervous of it now after their experiences of the Geth., , Let’s talk about the combat as this is going to be a very negative review of a very mediocre game, and the combat is almost great., You can choose to focus on three aspects, combat, tech and biotics, which correspond to fighting, mechanics and magic. Each has its own (samey) skill tree and you can put abilities together in groups of three, and then switch between the groups on the fly. I began by putting everything into biotics, but then running out of uses for skill points there (when you’ve maxed out an ability, it’s a waste of time really to start on another that does almost the same) and so have improved the passive skills in the other sections. I focused on pistols, sniper rifles and biotic Pull and Throw, which can be used together for fun combos., In play, this works out like any other third-person action game really, except with the ability to blast baddies into the sky for entertainment. Headshots, ducking in and out of cover, sitting back and letting rival enemy groups beat each other up for a bit… You know the score, and it’s all delivered well enough. It’s nothing exciting, but it entertains in the same way Far Cry does. Clear out a camp, run in and scoop up the loot, and most likely find a new collectable that’ll build into yet another side quest. It’s only thwarted by the completely appalling team AI., , Companion AI is a disaster, most distinctly because it’s so incessantly noticeable. You want your buddies to just be there, trotting behind you until fighting starts. Instead they are bonkers, darting back and forth as if chased by wasps, and have the most wonderful/ridiculous need to climb on top of things. Just stand in a room looking at a computer terminal and your buddies will jump up onto cupboards, beds, desks, whatever they can find. More than anything, they take this most difficult path on offer. Why run down some stairs when they can jump over a railing behind some crates, then have to run in an enormous circle around a building to find you again?! It’s definitely amusing, but bloody stupid. And when they react to their self-imposed obstacle courses by letting out terrified grunts, it’s also damned annoying., But get into battle and it’s much more serious. I cannot tell you how often they just run in front of you and stand still, screwing up shots, bumping you out the way, not shifting out of cover you need, or ignoring enemies immediately in front of them. They can be a help, and when it works it’s fun to see them using their abilities to kill off enemies, but they’re just as likely not to., Enemy AI is clumsy, but isn’t it always, and this only becomes more problematic when – say – the giant robot you’re trying to kill is entirely encased by a small hill, somehow able to still shoot at you. But so goes this clearly unpolished mess of bugs., , It cannot be understated just how much there is of this game. And not just in the way it’s a big stack of explorable maps smothered in icons (thanks Ubisoft for your contagion sweeping through all of gaming), but in the way that there’s recorded dialogue in what must be unprecedented quantities, more side quests than every other game in history put together, and a genuinely impressive variety in ways to play. There’s charging about in your six-wheeler over planets, uncovering enemy encampments, having cover-based shoot-outs. There’s exploring ancient temples of the Remnant. There’s chatting with absolutely everyone you come across. There are lengthy missions (that play out like raids) in special locations. There are (optional) multiplayer games tied into the main plot. And there’s trying to do sex on everyone you encounter., What unites all these different features is the most unrelentingly dull writing, cliches and aphorisms pouring out like the waterfalls they’d use as an analogy in this sentence. Every chat lasts three times longer than it needs to, and they’re achingly boring from casual encounters to the deepest moments in relationships. I cannot explain this better than by giving a lengthy example from one moment in the first few hours, a chat about the potentially complex and messy subject of faith., , One member of your crew, a scientist, reveals to you that she believes in God. Now, this is old territory for Mass Effect, where in the first game you had a right-wing Christian on your crew, and it was handled especially well. Not so this time! This is genuinely the conversation:, “Just all of it. So alien. A constant reminder of the divine intelligence behind all creation.”, “Divine intelligence? A god?”, “Yes, I believe in a higher power. I know it’s a little odd. But I’m a scientist because science brings me closer to something greater than myself.”, To this you are given two possible responses. Beyond all credibility, they are:, “I feel the same way.”
Rock Band VR combines familiar conventions with enough new elements to make the experience novel and exciting for fans of the genre. Taking full advantage of the technology, Rock Band VR puts players in the first-person perspective with little UI clogging up your view, a departure from the view in mainline Rock Band games where the concert video-style presentation is background to the prominent note highway. Instead, you're free to look around the stage, with the only UI appearing in a chord guide that floats above the crowd, and a combo meter on the head of your guitar. This new approach plays into the strengths of virtual reality, removing the barrier that exists with previous series between the player and the screen. When a song I love like Foo Fighters' "Everlong" or Megadeth's "Hangar 18" comes on, it's difficult not to get into it. I found myself tapping my foot, nodding my head, and even holding the guitar in a more stylish manner during my favorite tracks.
My biggest complaint is that some dialogue options don't lead where you intend them to. For instance, I chose to stand up for a certain character, but that led to Javier exposing one of that person's secrets and straining the relationship. It may add unpredictability, but it's a problem when characters act the opposite of what you intend.
Chicago Cubs fans had to wait over 100 years for their loveable losers to win another World Series. I fear R.B.I. Baseball hopefuls will be waiting just as long for another respectable version of their game. Since the series’ revival in 2014, R.B.I. Baseball has struggled, and few attempts have been made to improve upon it.
The visuals might be modern, but the gameplay retains the classic style WayForward has now become known for. Platforming dexterity is required, and controlling Shantae feels good enough to keep frustration at bay.  Shantae moves well and is fun to control and fight with as she whips her hair at oncoming nefarious animals and pirates. I always landed on the platform I was jumping for and hit the enemy I was aiming at thanks to precise controls.
I suspect that everyone who makes games wishes they’d made Spelunky. Effectively perfect game design, unconstrained by the heavy flab of spectacle. Loot Rascals [official site] takes that game’s random generation, escalating challenge, extreme balancing, minimal explaining and daily runs and applies it all to a slick, playful roguelite and collectable card game hybrid. Then slathers gloriously weird creature design all over it.
As for melee, Marcus has a nifty string attached to a weighted ball which he aggressively swings at foes or uses the cord to choke them. These are thrilling animations, but they leave you vulnerable in a shootout since they take a few seconds to play out, so melee is most useful when you’re out of sight. You can play through the entire game non-lethally with Marcus’ stun gun, but you see no repercussions for a lethal versus non-lethal approach, which makes this distinction nearly meaningless. I preferred the more practical lethal approach, but going the non-lethal route adds more of a challenge and makes more narrative sense for Marcus. 
Mae has bizarre out-of-body experiences through her dreams, which focus on exploration. In most of these dreamscapes, you platform your way through shadowy parts of town, searching for four different musicians to complete a puzzle. These are never difficult to complete, but are breathtakingly atmospheric as an eclipsed moon hangs above, and apartment windows glow in the nighttime. 
Capcom Vancouver has diligently iterated on the franchise, revisiting and tweaking elements that haven’t quite worked. That makes one of Dead Rising 4’s prominent stumbles stand out even more. Previous games have featured memorable encounters with special deranged survivors, which served as bosses. They’re called maniacs here (so long, psychopaths), and they all are disappointments. Before, these challenging fights were bracketed with cutscenes, showing why a clown may have lost his mind, and then paying off the fight with a gory climax. They were surprisingly poignant at times, conveying some of the damage that people endured during the zombie outbreaks. The maniacs in Dead Rising 4 have no fanfare; they don’t drop any exclusive weapons, and have no memorable qualities, aside from the fact that they might be wearing matching outfits. I always looked forward to meeting the next weirdo in the previous games, but dispatching each new maniac felt more like ticking a checklist once I realized how little they added to the world.
Captain Flinthook is a plucky space pirate who uses a grappling hook to board ships and search for treasure – as well as something more personal. Grappling points litter most rooms, the floors of which are often hazardous. Propelling and shooting through a room without touching the ground is usually difficult due to the number of spiked balls, lasers, and enemies you encounter, but the feeling of threading the needle and blasting apart every enemy in sight without a scratch never gets old.
Pagies play a larger role in story progression, and thus require you to complete objectives to obtain them. The missions they are tied to vary wildly, from racing a cute cloud character to transforming Yooka and Laylee into objects like an attack helicopter or a school of piranha to complete special tasks. I love the creativity of these challenges, and the thrill that accompanied each clever or difficult objective. With 145 Pagies spread across worlds and hub area, I was never at a loss of things to do – this is a long game.
That blend of stealth and shooting is joined by your active and passive augments, which determine the options you might have at any given time. This results in each building seeming to have the same few types of entry points. Did you spec in the direction of the gas-resistant lungs? Maybe the poison-filled passage under the building is the right route. Did you spec up in hacking? Just hack the keypad at the back door. Want to just waltz past the guards? Active camouflage makes you invisible for brief moments, more than enough to get you past any stupid guard. Or hey, maybe you just want to shoot everyone. I primarily played a stealthy style and focused my points into opening up as many of these different options as possible, just in case I needed one over the other. By the end of the game, I felt like I was more or less able to do anything, hack anything, and be everywhere. But that still usually translates into skulking up behind a guard and hitting the takedown button, which awkwardly cuts to black, displays a canned takedown animation, and cuts back to the action. At times the hard cut to the takedown made me feel like I was playing some kind of neoFMV game, which I suppose isn't all bad.
All of the gameplay design elements in ReCore collectively have the makings of an excellent little character-driven action game like there haven't been enough of in recent years. The combat is fast and varied, the platforming is demanding and cleverly designed, and the progression has more than enough of that carrot-on-a-stick potential to make you want to keep upgrading. But the longer the game goes on, the more bugs large and small start to grate on your nerves, and the more disjointed and downright weird the pacing of the story becomes. I eventually lost track of the number of technical issues I ran into playing through this game; it's simply one of the buggiest games to come out of a major publisher, much less a platform-holder, in recent memory.
An important part of that preparation is equipping Link with food and weapons, which are found everywhere. Creating health-restoring dishes and potions is simple, and I enjoyed gathering ingredients between destinations to see what I could create. Combining meats and mushrooms to create heart-replenishing shish kabobs is fun, but discovering strange potions using monster parts and bugs is especially exciting.
Despite some fun moments, several issues popped up over the course of my playthrough. On multiple occasions, I’d take out one enemy stealthily, and then lure a second to continue to thin the herd. When I tried to stealth-kill the next foe, Fairburne picked up the dead body of the first, completely blowing my cover thanks to some buttons being responsible for too many actions. In addition, getting locked into an animation for stylish melee kills is panic-inducing, and resulted in me suffering several cheap deaths.
To make matters worse, a stamina bar is tied to your game. A full stamina bar is worth 50 points. Early on, battles require two points but as the game goes on, the stamina cost goes up. It takes five minutes to regenerate a single point, which means it’s easy to run that bar down to zero in a short period of time, leaving you unable to play unless you use a stamina potion or spend an orb to regenerate the bar fully. Stamina potions can be gifted to you and orbs are won in battle, but orbs are also your currency for unlocking characters, so Heroes is unsubtly trying to strong arm you into buying orbs with real currency in order to keep the stamina up. It’s a dubious-bordering-on-insidious system that only gets worse as the game goes on, since orbs are harder to find and you commonly draw duplicates. The stamina bar is a huge drain on Heroes’ playability, especially in the later stages; I would gladly pay for a “full version” of the game to eliminate the mechanic altogether.
There's a decent set of crafting tools available that let you customize a wide array of weapons and armor to fit your play style which is relatively satisfying to dig into, although just like the quest interface, the gear and crafting are complicated by layer upon layer of unwieldy menus. And ultimately, after nearly 80 hours even the combat had thoroughly worn out its welcome with me due to a relative lack of variety in encounter design. Even the very last fight in the game is just a 20-minute slog against the exact same types of enemies you've been facing down for the entire game. If you really like the combat--and it is a lot of fun--the wave-based multiplayer from Mass Effect 3 returns here and offers a small variety of specific objectives--hack terminals, hold territory, take out VIP enemies--in addition to the standard kill-everything waves. There's a ton of unlockable character classes, weapons, and gear to collect and level up if you want to spend a lot of time grinding in multiplayer, and some missions even funnel materials back into your single-player campaign, but even with some variations in the types of enemies you fight each time out, I'd gotten my fill of the handful of maps available after a few hours.
These moments can feel like the best parts of Amnesia: The Dark Descent at times. Ethan doesn’t have much in the way of firepower at his disposal early on, so I frequently found myself crouching behind cover and praying that one of the Bakers didn’t spot me. When they did, the ensuing chases were often thrilling. I lost track of how many times I frantically ran down hallways, trying to zigzag through rooms and close doors behind me in an effort to shake my pursuer. These tense sequences are helped in no small part by the absence of the loading doors that were trademarks of early games in the series. Load times are occasionally present when you’re entering a completely new area or triggering a flashback, but for the most part you’re free to go straight through any unlocked door without waiting.
Along with the solid boots-on-the-ground combat the franchise is known for, Infinite Warfare features flight missions in your jet-like Jackal that task you with shooting down other fighters, taking out enemy starships with cannons, and placing flares at the right moment to avoid enemy missiles. This isn’t some tacked-on gimmick just to add a wrinkle to the established conventions, and I enjoyed many intense moments dodging debris while attempting to get a lock on enemy ace pilots. You also venture into the void of space without your ship during several segments, providing a taste of zero-gravity combat to go with the rest of the in-space meal. While the zero-gravity combat is a good deal less compelling than the rush of adrenaline the Jackal fights provide, it doesn’t feel forced or out of place.
Having an AI partner join in during gameplay sequences isn’t new to the series, but it feels more fleshed-out this time around thanks to context-specific takedowns and the rapport between the brothers. Like Uncharted 2, the running theme of Uncharted 4 is doing everything its predecessor did, only much better. Everything feels more inspired than Drake’s Deception, from the storyline to the setpiece moments to subtle gameplay touches and animations.
Zombie fans have a lot of options out there, but they shouldn’t overlook Killing Floor 2. It’s a fun way to spend a few evenings, or as a deeper alternative to Call of Duty’s zombies mode. Even though you’ve probably seen much of what it offers already, it’ll have you cackling as you paint the walls red with a few of your friends. 
Rather than have two concurrent Mario RPG series, Nintendo has kept most of that genre’s trappings confined to the Mario & Luigi series for over a decade. Paper Mario may have taken the torch from Super Mario RPG with its first two entries, but later titles strayed further and further from the formula. Super Paper Mario was a platformer for all intents and purposes, and Sticker Star took a different approach altogether. The 3DS title eliminated XP and leveling, severely handicapping any sense of progression. In addition, combat was regulated by a finite collection of stickers that Mario would collect in the world. As polarizing as Sticker Star was for fans of the series, Paper Mario: Color Splash doubles down on its most frustrating elements and makes them even worse.
The PlayStation 4 version is equipped with PlayStation VR functionality, allowing players to experience the same game from a more intimate perspective. As much as I enjoyed seeing this world up close and personal (not to mention aiming through head tracking), the VR integration is riddled with issues. Unless you play the game from a standing position to manually turn your body, your best option from the sitting position is to use set angles for turning – meaning your character turns 30 degrees each time the analog stick is tapped. It’s a clunky way of moving through the world, but it likely won’t make you sick. The alternative is to turn on smooth movement, which allows you to turn freely by pressing the right analog stick. This option didn’t sit well with me. Every spin made my stomach churn. No variations in rotation speed alleviated the sensation that something wasn’t right. Basically, play it standing, or don’t play it in VR.
The drop-in/drop-out cooperative infrastructure Ubisoft built for Wildlands generally works, but expect some hiccups as well. A handful of player drops happened unexpectedly, and we witnessed some nagging glitches where player characters twitch furiously or appear to run on top of a car when in actuality they are sitting in the vehicle. 
Rather than focusing on one main mode with accompanying peripheral modes pushed off to the side, Star Rush presents each mode as equal, with the only distinction being how long it takes to unlock each mode. From the frantic Toad Scramble and Balloon Burst (which have four characters moving simultaneously through an open, non-linear board) to the beat-match mode Rhythm Recital, Mario Party: Star Rush presents myriad modes to play either solo or with friends.
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is primarily a re-release of an acclaimed game from three years ago, but by adding new content and addressing the biggest complaint of the original, this version is unquestionably the best way to experience Nintendo's great racer. Battle mode is back to its original glory, and when combined with the rest of the robust Mario Kart 8 package, it creates a great addition to the fledgling Switch library.
Like Sticker Star, combat is regulated by single-use cards that Mario can buy or find in the environment. Since there isn’t any kind of infinite base level attack that can be pulled out at any point, I was frequently required to waste powerful cards on enemies that were already near death. This system can back you into a corner. If you’ve run out of hammers and all you have are a bunch of jump cards, good luck trying to take out that Shy Guy with a spiked helmet on his head.
World Tour mode only has 24 levels, which is disappointing considering how short the levels are. Each of those stages has three collections of difficult-to-grab coins. When you grab the first set, you can replay the level to grab a new one, and then again to grab the last set. Finding these coins is difficult, and going for the last set rearranges the levels in interesting ways, such as adding new platforms and blocks that create new paths. I enjoyed seeking out these difficult-to-find coins initially, but grew weary of having to replay the levels, especially when it became clear that revisiting them is where Run intends players to invest most of their time.
Rise & Shine makes a great first impression. The parade of references to popular video games is initially amusing, and the charming visual style and twist on classic run-and-gun action draws players in. With an unconventional mix of shooting, bullet-dodging, and puzzle-solving, the opening stages demonstrate plenty of potential – but the more you progress, the more you see that potential squandered.
This sounds like a cool concept, but the execution is more frustrating than satisfying. Despite attempts to be tactical, the gunfights exist in an unenjoyable space between chaos and order. I can sense the intent to make the encounters like gun-based puzzles, but they are too hectic for precision, and the options are too limited to encourage experimentation. Standard battles boil down to a sea of robots blasting energy balls at you, while you shoot a spray of bullets back, keeping an eye out for the handful of foes (like shield-toting grunts) that demand special attention. If you’re fortunate, the screen isn’t completely covered with projectiles, leaving you a clear path to lob your explosive shot at the shield grunt. If you’re unfortunate, your shot hits a different target – maybe even you – leading to your death and forcing you to try the fight again.
On that note, it's worth mentioning that the PC version of Forza Horizon 3 has the potential to look great, but the recommended and "ideal" specs are pretty stiff. Even in a situation where you meet those requirements, getting the game to run at a stable 60 frames-per-second seems like it can be a tall order. If anything, the game seems like it was built to be locked at 30fps. On the Xbox One, where the game is more or less locked at 30, you're given a terrific sense of speed in the faster cars. But the game looks great at higher frame rates, provided you've built a PC powerful enough to actually handle that.
Beyond its cast of astonishing characters, the chief allure is the interlocking web of quests. Torment’s missions often explore metaphysical quandaries, and demand attention and judicious use of character skills, like persuasion, knowledge of machinery, and more. I might aid a cabal of psychics to uncover the malevolent entity hiding in their midst, or force my character to die so he can enter a labyrinth in his own mind and help a ghostly woman hiding within. I was thoroughly engrossed in the stories at hand, but I sometimes found the constant back-and-forth running between destinations to be tedious. 
Hitman’s later episodes only become more unforgiving. IO Interactive isn’t afraid to ratchet up the difficulty by loading environments with eagle-eyed foes. Episode 5 tasks 47 with taking out four targets on a militia training camp in Colorado, which means every NPC is armed and on the lookout for intruders. Episode 6 takes place inside a high-tech spa where every door is electronically locked based on your disguise, leaving you with few places to hide. I appreciate new wrinkles and challenges being introduced to Hitman’s gameplay, but they all result in more trial and error, which can quickly cross the line into frustration.
This is just one way that The Show produces new situations and outcomes. A small tweak to the ball physics also goes a long way to creating more hit types and play variables. In past games, the ball would bounce unpredictably off of walls, but not off of the bat. This year, the ball spins accurately off of the bat and at appropriate speeds to produce more slices, bloops, and rockets. Computer-controlled fielders sometimes struggle with the new trajectories, not from bad pathing, but the A.I. making bad choices.
Praising the visuals in this series should be the least surprising thing in the world, but Naughty Dog’s work on A Thief’s End looks impossibly gorgeous. To say it’s the best-looking game on PlayStation 4 feels like doing it a disservice. It’s the best-looking video game I’ve ever seen on any console, from the expressive faces to the realistic animations to a wide variety of stunning environments. Interiors feature a crazy amount of minute details, and many of the outdoor vistas made me want to just stand in place and rotate the camera around. I’m not sure what kind of voodoo Naughty Dog has been practicing, but nothing on PlayStation 4 or Xbox One comes anywhere close to Uncharted 4’s visuals.
While The Sexy Brutale’s masks act as permanent upgrades, some tools are fleeting. Every time you rewind time and start the day over, you lose any items you’ve collected up to that point, which means that you have to go back through the mansion and re-collect any items you need to solve certain puzzle, which is a hassle.
Watch Dogs 2 is more concerned about making you laugh than making a statement, but some of its jokes are more cringe-worthy than clever, such as one character wearing a digital emoji mask. Its off-the-wall humor is outlandish, such as stealing a talking car from a famous film and flashily riding it across town to make headlines. As the game progresses, it tackles heavier topics, such as being investigated by the FBI and exposing how a social media giant helped rig an election, but Watch Dogs 2 never loses its ridiculous tone. It shines best when it satirizes real-world events, such as a mission that is an obvious spin on the Martin Shkreli controversy or when you infiltrate a Google-like company.
And I have never had more fun in No Man's Sky than I did on this garbage planet. Due to some pre-day-one-patch glitch, my ship's engines had broken. I needed to farm a fair amount of iron in order to make the necessary repairs, and while iron was certainly around, it was gonna take a while to get it. Knowing that I would end up wiping my save when the patch dropped, I decided this is where I was going to make my stand. I was going to die on this rock, but before then, I wanted to find someone else alive. I had to know if I was truly, utterly alone.
Fifteen years after Emily Kaldwin ascends to the throne following the assassination of her mother, Dishonored 2 begins with an unexpected (and abrupt) coup. Depending on the choice you make in this pivotal turn of events in the throne room, either Emily or her father Corvo Atttano (the original Dishonored protagonist) must voyage to the southernmost point of the empire to unravel the conspiracy of this successful putsch and exact vengeance. 
Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare isn't the best Call of Duty has ever been, but it's almost certainly the most Call of Duty Activision has ever placed into a single package. For $60 you'll get that now-standard three-pronged Call of Duty attack, with a campaign, competitive multiplayer, and cooperative zombie survival multiplayer. Go above and beyond that and you'll also get a remastered version of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, the game that sent us down this perk and loadout-filled road to begin with. It's a lot of stuff, and some of that stuff is maybe better than its ever been. But just as much, if not more of those different chunks of video game are far enough off the mark that it's still hard to recommend Infinite Warfare, especially in a year that presents a higher-than-normal number of other, better options.
There's a multiplayer mode and some slightly odd user-created content features in here, but the single-player campaign alone is worth the price of entry, and there are so many great things I want to say about it that it's hard to know where to begin. The best place to start is with the origins of Doom itself, since this new game picks up the tenets of its seminal predecessor and runs with them. The maps are big and complex, with multiple crisscrossing paths, locked doors, and a good amount of backtracking. The shooting is fast, it hits hard, and it never lets you stop moving for a second. You don't even reload your weapons. You don't even reload your weapons!
The thought of a VR title replicating my real-life golf swing is simultaneously alarming and marvelous. There are few rules to my swing – and therefore little consistency – and The Golf Club VR is able to capture it and the wide variety of outcomes it produces. This doesn't do my score card any favors, but it does point to a believable, engaging VR experience.
The Double Dragon franchise was instrumental in turning brawlers into a bustling genre during the arcade era. Jimmy and Billy Lee now return decades later (once again tasked with rescuing Marian), and their journey takes them down memory lane for franchise fans with tons of foes from previous entries and a juiced-up soundtrack that brings the old tunes out with a fresh twist. If you’re looking for a title drenched in nostalgia – right down to the retro graphics and mind-numbing platforming challenges – this is one you don’t want to miss. But recalling your memories of Double Dragons long past may be more enjoyable than this new experience.
As everyone knows, the best way to kill a zombie is to take out its brain. Popping heads is easy and rewarding, thanks to the nicely tuned controls and weapons. Some of the zombies are more resilient than others, but aiming for the brain is almost always a quick solution to whatever zombie problem you’re facing. You can also blast (or chop) limbs off if you’re so inclined, and Tripwire has lovingly modeled your enemies’ squishy interiors as well. Those moments are highlighted in delirious detail when the game kicks into a cinematic slow-motion mode, typically activated when you or one of your squadmates is doing well. There, you can plan your shots and fully appreciate all of the viscera – as well as some unfortunately awkward animations when the zombies magically hop over small obstacles. 
Adult Swim’s Rick and Morty is a funny show, and Owlchemy Labs’ Job Simulator is an amusing VR game. Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality is the predictable result of mashing those two things together. If you are familiar with both of its building blocks, you already know exactly what to expect from this VR experience; it combines the anything-goes zaniness of Rick and Morty with Job Simulator’s core concept of interacting with nearby objects in small spaces. The result is good for a few laughs (especially for fans of the show), but it isn’t much fun to play.
, As a tactical game, the basics are straightforward and recognisable to any Hearthstone dabbler. You get a handful of cards, some are spells and some are creatures that you can summon (or heroes or gods etc). Each creature has numbers denoting their attack strength and health. Every attack (or almost every attack) will prompt a counterattack from the targeted monster. It’s more or less a game of small numbers, random luck and tempo, getting into a position to do slightly more damage than your foe at critical moments. You’ve also got your principal God on the same battlefield. You need to kill the opposing God to win, chipping away at their larger health pool until one of you snuffs it., The difference here is that you’re summoning things to a chess-like board of squares, meaning you can block off enemy attacks with careful positioning, or make use of weaker ranged units by putting them out of your enemies’ reach. You can corner the opposing God so that they have limited space, or fight for some goodies that spawn in the centre ground. It adds an extra dimension to the gurning arithmetic that goes on in your brain during these types of card games. Each turn has to be played in the ideal ordered, logical steps but also with an awareness of space., , There are only a few Gods to start, each bringing its own Pantheon to its deck. As well as a weak and basic attack, these Gods also have a special ability. For example, Zeus can spend a couple of mana (the magic dollars you spend to play the cards) to draw a fresh card from his deck. Odin can buff his summoned dirtbags with a similar mana tithe. The trade-off is that using an ability exhausts the God, so you can’t normally attack and use your special powers. It’s one or the other., The important thing to know is that lesser gods – the kind you can spawn as units on the field – also have these secondary abilities. Aphrodite can put a shield on another unit and heal it. Bastet can summon three weak cats each with 1 attack and 1 health. Loki can teleport an enemy three tiles away and deal it 5 damage. This is an extra thing to keep in mind as you fight. It’s not always as simple as comparing red and green numbers., , There are a bunch of these lesser gods in each pantheon (about 7-9 in each) but only a couple are open to the beginner in the starter decks. To get new cards you earn ‘favour’ and spend it on new packs. These contain 5 random cards. But there’s also the obligatory free-to-play vom, which encourages you to spend real cash to get ‘runes’ that you can spend on packs. The shop full of runes is unsurprisingly tiered to make you spend more. 7 card packs would cost you 500 runes, for example. But the “BUY BUY BUY” page lists only 400 runes or 800 runes as a viable purchase, with no in-between option. It’s classic stuff from the big book of F2P monetary psychology – inventing a faux currency, randomising the results of a loot pack, implementing a slow grind – and there’s nothing here that other similar games don’t indulge in. But that doesn’t make it any less icky. Especially if you buy the founder’s pack and are already paying $20 to test the game for them., , And here’s the kicker. You really are testing this game. Placeholder art is one thing, but bugs and a positively malnourished user interface mean that even a short and steady match will have its “gurr?” moments. I’ll give you an example: I was playing as Zeus, facing down a player wielding a sturdy Ra. I was on the ropes, almost certainly going to lose. But that’s okay, I thought, with my last action this turn I can just splurdge 2 mana and draw a new card., “NotEnoughManaForAbility,” said a banner at the top of the screen., , I checked my mana. I had three., I checked the cost of the ability. “Spend 2 mana to draw a card,” it read., Hm., I lost that match, and I probably still would have lost whether the game let me draw a new card or not. But it was an eye-rolling reminder that I was playing a game that didn’t always function correctly., Other times there is no bug but the game has not explained itself in a reliable way. During another match, I used a ‘stun’ card on an enemy’s ranged minion. From everything I’d experienced thus far, this would stop an enemy minion from taking any action the next turn. I also poisoned her for good measure. That way, she would also die at the end of the next go. It was an expensive set of moves but, unless the enemy God had a purification spell (which removes status effects), the minion was certain to die., I was very confused when she let off a shot and struck me for a nasty 4 damage on the next turn. Obviously, I have missed something here – but what? I looked at the battle log (a little menu to the left that shows previous cards played) but I couldn’t see anything that explained it. Can minions only suffer one status effect at a time? Was this minion immune to stunning? That can’t be it, I saw the little stars whizz around her head. Does ‘stun’ actually just mean a minion can’t move but can still attack? No, because, inspecting the card, it says that stun ‘exhausts’ a unit entirely. Unless ‘exhausts’ means something else? I still don’t know what happened here., , Of course, these moments of confusion were sometimes only a matter of me learning the vocabulary of the game, getting to know the exact effects of each brutish Ymir, or what ‘Pardon’ meant when a giant enemy Fury is storming down the middle of the board towards you (it means the unit can’t be counter-attacked when it strikes). At those moments when I’d misinterpreted something that ought to have been clear, I felt irritated – but only at myself., There are many small differences between this and my usual stomping ground of Duelyst. Your deck is half the size for one thing, bringing only 20 cards to the battle grounds. This is because draw is much slower. You can’t replace a card once per turn, so there’s less ‘digging’ for a particular card to land the killing blow., , But this only makes the matches slower-paced and gives the victim of an opening hand of bad cards a sense that they’ve already lost. Sometimes I have gone two or three turns without even playing a card, simply because I couldn’t afford it in the early game. Normally, if this happened a lot I would consider re-making my deck – but this was with a starter deck, something that ought to be well-rounded. Duelyst’s solution of being able to shuffle a card back in and draw again once per turn dulls the pain of an unlucky draw. With its smaller deck and secondary abilities, I get the feeling that Smite Tactics wants to be a slower, more thoughtful game. But it only succeeds at being the former., With card design, it simply felt like there was a lack of invention. And although each pantheon has its own tone, no god was radically different from another, no strategies seemed unique to any deck. Odin has some swarmy abilities, for example. One card lets him spawn two ranged archers at a time, another spawns two small soldier boys at a time. Then, he can unleash a cheap spell that does 1 damage at random for every friendly minion., , This is a better example of one God’s vibe but even here there is a fundamental design flaw. All those cards need to be played in succession to land the fullest, strongest blow. Spawn the creeps and wait until the next turn and you risk them all being killed by the time you get the chance to cast the cheap damage spell, nullifying it totally. But do what seems natural and correct – play all the cards one after the other – and you’ll find yourself with an empty hand and no way to draw up. This might be a interesting risk/reward mechanic for other players but to me the slow draw speed and low creature count feels like a stifling limitation on the game, a ball and chain that turns everything into a sluggish crawl toward an unsatisfying and non-creative KO., , There are other issues, like I said, mostly with the user interface. The matchmaking boots you back to a previous menu for a few seconds when it has found a match, leaving you wondering if it was successful or not. The campaigns promise to allow you to fight AI puzzles in exchange for rare cards, but this menu was totally empty when I clicked on it. Sometimes a match will end and claim you the victor, but there’s no indication if this was because the enemy conceded or disconnected or what. These are all problems that will likely be fixed but for now they make the whole experience feel a bit sloppy., I feel like I haven’t seen enough of the cards to say for definite whether Smite Tactics has some clever plays and strange tricks embedded in its design. It may well have. But the glacial pace, old fashioned fantasy art (filled to the brim with gratuitous tits), sluggish grind and borked UI mean I can’t help but view it as a poor man’s Duelyst.
Unfortunately, the locations are too big for their own good. Like previous games, the new Hitman offers up a bevy of creative opportunities to snuff your targets. However, the enormous areas exacerbate all of the series’ weaknesses. Pulling off an elaborate kill means learning the layout of a labyrinthine environment, finding the necessary items for your scheme (which is now like finding a specific needle in a stack of needles), figuring out guard routes, acquiring the right disguises, and oftentimes maneuvering your target into the correct location by completing some inane secondary objective. It’s an inordinate amount of prep work for a series that already demands a lot of patience. 
That violence isn't inappropriate given the traditions of both the Mafia series and the open-world action genre in general. You know going into a game like this that by the end of it, you're going to leave a great deal of carnage in your wake. That the action is, by and large, satisfying, somewhat salves the feeling of repetition that sets in long before the game concludes. When I say that the game revolves around gunfights, I mean that in the near absolute. There's very little variety to Mafia III's mission designs. Occasional boostings of cars or destructions of properties only barely break up the hours upon hours of shootouts with extremely gullible guys sporting bomber jackets and/or giant sideburns. In a game with a less entertaining combat system, this would be ruinous. In Mafia III, I had a good enough time kicking doors down and shotgunning dudes through windows that I was mostly OK with it.
Each procedural seed also has a number attached to it, and you can replay any seed by punching it in. If you want to play one particularly bountiful seed to completion, you can. You can also turn any deck you’re fond of into a “practice” deck, which lets you use it again but prevents you from reaching the final boss. These concepts warp the roguelike formula in fun ways, but I still frequently had runs I had little to show for, which was discouraging.
When you're playing locally, you have the option to add human or computer opponents. Playing with the latter often feels broken, as the A.I. runs instant calculations and knows exactly where to place its character the way an expert player would, and you can't tune the difficulty to be more in line with the other players in the match. Unless you're in a match full of skilled Bomberman players, you're probably better off leaving those extra spaces blank.
In the original release of Mario Kart 8, battle mode was the major sore spot, since it made players duke it out on race tracks rather than dedicated battle arenas. With Deluxe, Nintendo has more than remedied that problem. In addition to adding new and reimagined classic battle arenas, Deluxe expands on the basic battle concept. The classic Balloon Battle, where you try and pop the balloons of other players while protecting your own, is joined by the all-new Renegade Roundup, as well as modes from past games like Bob-omb Blast, Coin Runners, and Shine Thief.
All players experience the core exploits of the Phantom Thieves, but Persona 5 has a layer of self-directed story that is even better. When you aren’t taking down corrupt villains, you are managing your days in a simulation of student life in modern-day Tokyo. I love the process of optimizing my time and seeing the progress in my stats and relationships; you can fill your day with things like part-time jobs, video games, fishing, or deepening your bonds with your friends. That last one is the most important and rewarding, since the resulting scenes answer questions about the backstories and motivations of the people around you. Why is one of your teachers working a second job? Why is the Phantom Thieves’ biggest fan so obsessed? The cast of characters is wonderful, easily meeting the bar set by previous installments. I even found the animal mascot tolerable, which was a pleasant surprise. I was slightly less attached to the main party characters here compared to Persona 4, but the supporting cast is better, evening out the experience as a whole.
The game doesn't spend much time actually exploring this new flip, though, as a new/old threat of creatures that come to be known as "the Swarm" rear their ugly head around halfway through the game. While the airdrops of robot troops made the game's opening chapters feel at least a little different, the Swarm come off as the Locust troops of the previous games but with somewhat better AI. They'll flank you, they'll hop over your cover to knock you back, but they'll also just post up behind something and take mindless shots in your direction. And they'll occasionally emerge from nests that look suspiciously like the Locust emergence holes. So the bulk of the game, then, just feels like more Gears of War with some new unspeakable creatures thrown in along the way, including a "snatcher" who sucks up downed players and traps them inside the creature's stomach until other players put enough rounds into the enemy, forcing it to puke the player back up. There's some neat stuff in there, but I was definitely left wishing that the campaign didn't cruise back into its comfort zone quite so quickly.
The Elder Scrolls: Legends takes the legendary faces, races, and places of The Elder Scrolls series and transports them into a card-game format, where Dragon Priests battle Khajiit thieves and Wabbajacks can add an unpredictable element to any encounter. With five distinct attributes to explore and some features that prevent the game from being another Hearthstone or Magic: The Gathering clone, Legends is a polished, enjoyable experience.
Halo Wars 2 [official site] is undeniably a console RTS – a rare, exotic bird that looks a bit weird and could only have evolved on an island split off from the rest of the world. Removing it from its natural habitat and introducing it to the PC ecosystem, where its evolutionary niche isn’t quite so niche, might seem a little cruel and ill-conceived. But while it’s certainly not a perfect fit, it’s striking and, more often than not, quite a lot of fun. Here’s wot I think., , It’s been a long time since Halo Wars first graced the Xbox 360, but it’s been longer still for the game’s protagonists, the stalwart crew of the Spirit of Fire. They’ve been asleep for decades, only to return to a galaxy that’s changed. A post-Halo 5 galaxy. As Ron Perlman likes to remind us, however, some things never change; whatever else has happened while the crew have been sleeping, the Halo Universe still loves a good war. And so it is that the long lost Spartans and Marines find themselves embroiled in yet another conflict, even before they’ve wiped the sleep out of their eyes., , Remember the Brutes? The big gorilla-like aliens who served the Covenant? Well, they’ve rebelled, sent the Covenant packing, and their leader Atriox has claimed the Halo-building Ark as his new home. One ship stands in the way of his plans, and that’s enough to kick the plot into gear, even if I’ve either forgotten what those plans were or they were never clearly expressed in the first place. , Halo Wars 2 spins a yarn that’s pretty typical of the main series – some high concept ideas made a little rote by a very simple narrative. For all the weird super weapons, nature reserves floating in the heavens and super-smart AIs, the campaign mostly just focuses on humans fighting evil aliens. Again. And then it ends awkwardly and abruptly to set up a sequel. , This three act war takes more than a few ideas from its FPS counterpart, with its exceptional Blur-created cutscenes – stunning works of CG art – and story-driven missions. Each of these 12 battles feels distinct, too. Not to the extent of, say, StarCraft 2, but there’s enough of a mix so that the campaign doesn’t outstay its welcome. Most missions take between 20-30 minutes to complete, so it’s a brief campaign, but it’s blessed with solid pacing and a good mix of objectives and scenarios., , It’s also surprisingly welcoming to Halo newcomers. It really doesn’t matter if you haven’t been paying much attention to what has become a massive and rich universe, because the crew of the Spirit of Fire have been out of the loop for years. Between the crew itself getting up to speed and the unlockable snippets of lore, it’s easy to get a grip on what the hell an Ark is and why everyone’s so obsessed with the titular Halos. , Campaign highlights include fighting and even getting to control the ridiculously huge Scarab unit – one of two super units in the game – and giving orders to not one but three badass Spartans. The campaign is filled to the brim with thrilling, explosive moments, which almost makes up for some stinkers like holding an area for 30 minutes, which Creative Assembly seem to think is such a fun mission objective that they use it twice., Let’s get back to the Spartans. Even though they appear as teeny, tiny warriors here, they are every bit as impressive as the likes of Master Chief. Every unit, from the vehicle-pounding Cyclops to the speedy and iconic Warthog, gets a special ability on top of its primary fire mode. The Warthog, for instance, revs up and slams into enemies with satisfying kinetic force. The Spartans are special, however. They get two equally fancy powers., , The first Spartan ability allows them to leap into the air and crush units when they nail their landing. This also lets them quickly jump off cliffs, surprising their foes below. Target a vehicle with that leap, though, and the ability changes. Instead of smashing into the vehicle, they hijack it. Every vehicle apart from the aforementioned super units is vulnerable to their superior hacking skills, allowing them to flit around the battlefield inside everything from the spry Wraiths to huge mechs bristling with rocket launchers. They feel every bit like the super soldiers the FPS makes them out to be. , While the unit selection is strong and their abilities often flashy, Halo Wars 2 never really seems to care how you use them. There are counter units, support units, myriad upgrades, but fights mostly just come down to who has the biggest blob of scrappers. I mean, you can try to play tactically, and you’ll probably need to – at least a little bit – when facing human opponents, but even then it’s more about army composition rather than being the smarter commander. , Controlling the Spartans, and every other aspect of Halo Wars 2’s vibrant and colourful battles, can feel a little off at times. Even when using a mouse and keyboard, it’s clear that concessions have been made for controllers. Units can be ordered to move, attack and use their special ability, but there’s little of the extra layer of control you might expect from a PC RTS. Your units constantly need to be micromanaged, there’s no patrol or guard options, and they’re cursed with poor pathfinding. The AI isn’t a serious threat, mind, and replacing units is a doddle, so if you do lose track of them, it’s not the end of the world., , These limitations aren’t all bad, however. Being able to relax on the sofa while playing an RTS using a controller is an enjoyable novelty, for one, but even if you’re playing Halo Wars 2 like a traditional RTS, the restrictions sometimes create interesting strategic wrinkles. , Base building definitely falls into this category. Instead of being able to place structures and defences wherever you please, maps are littered with predetermined base locations for HQs and mini-bases. Once you construct one, extra nodes appear around them, and that’s where you’ll plonk down your resource harvesting buildings, unit production facilities and your turrets. It seems horribly restrictive at first, but I’m now pretty sold on the idea. , If you need more energy or supplies – the game’s two resources, which are only generated by buildings because there are no resource nodes – you can’t just build a new generator or depot whenever or wherever you want. If you’ve already got one of each, chances are that you’ll need to destroy a building to make room for an extra one. Or you’ll need to explore, hopefully finding a node where you can set up a smaller base. This forces commanders to plan ahead and be willing to make the occasional sacrifice while also making build orders more reactive. It also encourages aggression and boldness. When you run out of space, you’re probably going to need to steal it from your opponent, destroying one of their bases and then building on its ashes., , Maps tend to be compact areas, full of winding paths that end in open battlefields. Units don’t move swiftly, especially in groups where their speed always matches the most sluggish unit, but battles are frenetic affairs where victories happen quickly. Despite their pace, there are plenty of opportunities for shifts in dominance and nasty surprises, largely thanks to powerful leader abilities. These nifty skills can be used to heal groups of units, drop down turrets or extra squads like ODST troops, or carpet bomb an entire area. Smart use of these game-changers can decide the outcome of a fight, but they have long cooldowns, so you’ve got to pick your moments., While Halo Wars 2 has its fair share of multiplayer modes, often influenced by the FPS games, the standout is undoubtedly Blitz. It subtracts buildings and unit construction for pacy firefights over a trio of capture points, with troops and abilities being played via cards. It’s a deck-building game, then, with each faction and commander getting unique cards, as well as a few neutral ones. You need to fight over energy pods that fall from the heavens before spending that energy on new units and powers, so it’s not just a race to get to the capture points, but also battle over fleeting resources. , In the other modes, there’s little beyond aesthetics to make armies feel distinct, but in Blitz there are enough unique cards to make some pretty diverse loadouts. And of course there’s the randomisation factor, as you’re never quite know what your hand is going to be. There’s usually a decent mix of powers and units, though, and I’ve never been in a position where I didn’t have anything worth playing. It helps that you can burn a card – for a cost – and immediately get a replacement. Cards costs are also generally low enough that you can field a beefy force with powerful units after only a short time, letting you get right into the thick of things and enjoy the type of scraps that you’d have to wait much longer for elsewhere., , Blitz is also the one place in Halo Wars where it feels like you’re being rewarded for being a clever, sneaky bastard. Because I’d played through the whole campaign before jumping into Blitz, I’d gotten used to just stomping around maps with one giant army, but that doesn’t really work here. It’s also not a good idea to spread your forces out; you’ve got to stay mobile. , Recently, I’ve been saving up my energy and leaving a single, expendable unit on the far side of a point. When the enemy storms it, I drop some mines – if I have them – and then summon what is essentially a brand new army. Maintaining line of sight of the capture points turns out to be even more important than keeping them defended., Halo Wars 2 is simultaneously conservative and inventive. It’s definitely trying to evoke traditional RTS games – which is not entirely a bad thing given the recent dearth of them – especially when it comes to the campaign, but elements like base construction and Blitz mode make it stand out enough that it doesn’t feel like you’re just going through the motions for the hundredth time. A clumsy UI and weird, sometimes fixed, keybindings and controls reveal its console heritage, but there are a surprising number of benefits to that side of the design. Some of the places where the formula has been redesigned in order to appeal to the Xbox One crowd, and to fit a controller, are the points where Halo Wars 2 finds an identity of its own.
Outside of the lack of the more recent PC expansions and the simulation speed options, Cities: Skylines - Xbox One Edition is every bit as good as its PC counterpart. The mayoral planning fantasy is still intact with this version, and now easier than ever to get into. Simply put, if you're an Xbox One owner who is a fan of city-building simulation games, you need to check out Cities: Skylines.
A Fragmentary Passage takes you through various levels, each with its own gimmick. For instance, in the first world, Aqua must locate five clock gears, platforming on high ledges and rooftops, while battling enemies to achieve them. In another, she must go through mirrors and uses their reflections to create ledges or manipulate gravity. Square Enix says A Fragmentary Passage uses development tools similar to Kingdom Hearts III, showing off more expansive environments and the ease of getting around them using the air slide and a powerful double jump, so it's almost a first look at how the tech has advanced for the upcoming entry. It makes me excited for Kingdom Hearts III's exploration. The episode also shows off the smoothest combat I've experienced in the series, playing out in a faster, more fluid pace. Camera issues didn't plague me as much as past entries have, either.
The joy of Robo Recall is finding out what your options are, then learning how to string them together to create higher scoring combos. I had fun immersing myself in the action and experimenting – and getting rewarded for my ingenuity. For example, one of my favorite moments was when I found out I could juggle an enemy in the air with bullets, receive a specific score boost for juggling them, and then grab that same enemy out of midair with my hands and throw them into a nearby truck.
Less beautiful (but still disorienting) are the crashes, at least on the game’s PC build as of launch. As a lot of folks have reported already (and as you can see in our pre-launch stream from a couple of weeks ago), Dark Souls 3 has been an unstable experience for many players. Approaching a new bonfire or loading into one and then quickly running away form it can cause a sudden hard crash, even for those who meet the game's system requirements. And it's worth noting that I also had crashes far away from bonfires during my playthrough.
Players can choose the number of waves and difficulty, but the options are limited beyond that. An additional mode splits teams into zombies and survivors, giving one team a chance to play as the zombies – complete with their various special abilities. It’s an amusing diversion from the core game, but I didn’t find it as compelling over the long term.
The Nintendo logo followed by Mario’s mustachioed face on my iPhone screen is a visual I didn’t think I would ever see. On the few occasions Mario has left the comfort of a Nintendo platform, it ended in disaster. It’s impossible to ignore the vast number of smartphone users, however, so he finally acquiesced to a mobile move. Super Mario Run is thankfully not a disaster on iOS. In fact, it left me wanting more, to a fault.
Sherlock Holmes: The Devil’s Daughter is a showpiece of detective work and player choice – elements that speak strongly to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s character and empower you with the belief you are puffing away at the meerschaum calabash. Each of the five cases delivers numerous outcomes, along with the satisfying feeling you are uncovering clues only Sherlock Holmes could. Developer Frogwares is well in tune with Holmes, as it should be after spending 15 years with him over eight games. Frogwares hit on something special with the 2014 entry, Crimes and Punishments, and attempts to build a bigger experience in The Devil’s Daughter, but most of the new gameplay activities negatively impact the experience, and are made worse by maddening technical issues.
Mario is the king of platforming, and he expertly retains that reputation for his jump to mobile. Mario Run is simplified by only having one input – jump. Mario runs on his own, and the player taps the screen to jump. You can bounce back and forth between walls, hit bounce pads to vault up into the air, or land on pause buttons to achieve the proper timing to pass obstacles. You also vault over enemies and up waste-high ledges automatically, which is odd at first but proves its value (and challenge) as you play. Landing on the enemies’ heads becomes an opportunity to reach difficult areas or coins or give you a speed boost. Thanks to the automatic momentum when you’re running full-speed, chaining Goomba stomps together and grabbing every coin, it makes you feel like you’re a skilled Mario speedrunner. The feeling is rewarding, and it’s one I encountered often in my playthrough.
These days it doesn't seem especially worth mentioning how good a game looks unless it really goes above and beyond, but Doom is definitely one of those games. Naturally it looks the best on a PC with a current GPU, and damn does it look good there. It's also worth noting that it still feels great to play with a mouse and keyboard--provided you turn off the swimmy mouse acceleration--which a lot of games that are developed primarily with consoles in mind don't seem to manage these days. (To give an idea of just what a throwback this game feels like, one of my favorite moments came when I was curious how my old Geforce 670 was performing at home, and I instinctually hopped into the console and threw in "com_showFPS 1" without even thinking about it. Yep, definitely an id game.) The bigger story here is how incredible this game looks and runs on console, though. The console versions use significantly lower quality shadows, particle effects, and so on than on PC, but not only do they still look better than most other console games, the PS4 version I played through also ran at a locked 60 fps the whole way through. That performance is critical given how fast the combat moves, so it's great to see the game running so smoothly on console and looking so good at the same time. The days of massive generational leaps in technology between game engines--leaps that at one time were almost singlehandedly driven by id games--seem to be behind us, but it's nice to see id Software can still bring it with the best of them in graphics terms.
The combat system is easily the highlight, working as a solid foundation for the rest of the diverse modes. It’s a 3D action/fighting hybrid that slashes its own unique path; the warriors have a variety of different weapons, including poison-tipped spears, battleaxes, and katana, but the fundamentals are the same regardless. Your hero can hold his or her weapon in three directional positions, for either attacking or defending. Switching positions is as simple as locking onto your opponent and moving the right analog stick. Add in feints, parries, block-breakers, and unique movesets, and you have a robust melee toolset.
